
_THE OLDEN-TIME SERIES._

16mo. Per vol., 50 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

There appears to be, from year to year, a growing popular taste for
quaint and curious reminiscences of "Ye Olden Time," and to meet this,
Mr. Henry M. Brooks has prepared a series of interesting handbooks. The
materials have been gleaned chiefly from old newspapers of Boston and
Salem, sources not easily accessible, and while not professing to be
history, the volumes contain much material for history, so combined and
presented as to be both amusing and instructive. The titles of some of
the volumes indicate their scope and their promise of entertainment:--

  CURIOSITIES OF THE OLD LOTTERY.
  DAYS OF THE SPINNING-WHEEL.
  SOME STRANGE AND CURIOUS PUNISHMENTS.
  QUAINT AND CURIOUS ADVERTISEMENTS.
  LITERARY CURIOSITIES.
  NEW-ENGLAND SUNDAY, ETC.

       *       *       *       *       *

"It has been the good fortune of the writer to be allowed a peep at the
manuscript for this series, and he can assure the lovers of the
historical and the quaint in literature that something both valuable and
pleasant is in store for them. In the specialties treated of in these
books Mr. Brooks has been for many years a careful collector and
student, and it is gratifying to learn that the material is to be
committed to book form."--_Salem Gazette._

       *       *       *       *       *

_For sale by all Booksellers. Sent, post-paid, upon receipt of price.
Catalogues of our books mailed free._

                                                  TICKNOR & CO., BOSTON.




THE OLDEN TIME SERIES

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DAYS OF THE SPINNING-WHEEL IN NEW ENGLAND

_"To say that the past is of no importance, unworthy of a moment's
regard, because it has gone by, and is no longer anything, is an
argument that cannot be held to any purpose; for if the past has
ceased to be, and is therefore to be accounted nothing in the scale of
good or evil, the future is yet to come, and has never been
anything."_--HAZLITT.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "_In my young days, when I was_ leetle,
    _The only steam came from the kettle._

    ....

    "_The_ Gals _on good old Dobbins rid then,
    But folks don't do as they used to_ did _then._

    ....

    _"Heigho! I grieve, I grieve
    For the good old days of Adam and Eve._"

                    From HENRY J. FINN'S "Good Old Times,"

                               October, 1827.




THE OLDEN TIME SERIES


GLEANINGS CHIEFLY FROM OLD NEWSPAPERS OF BOSTON AND SALEM, MASSACHUSETTS


SELECTED AND ARRANGED, WITH BRIEF COMMENTS

BY

HENRY M. BROOKS

       *       *       *       *       *

The Days of the Spinning-Wheel in New England

  "Old and new make the warp and woof of every moment. There is
  no thread that is not a twist of these two strands. By necessity, by
  proclivity, and by delight, we all quote."--EMERSON


[Illustration]

BOSTON

TICKNOR AND COMPANY

1886

_Copyright, 1885,_

BY TICKNOR AND COMPANY.

_All rights reserved._


University Press:

JOHN WILSON AND SON, CAMBRIDGE.




INDEX OF NAMES.

  PAGE

  ABERDOUR, JOHN LORD                                         71
  Adams, Samuel                                               71
  Amherst, General                                            38
  Amiel, John                                                 53
  Amory, Jonathan                                             79
  Apthorp, Charles Ward                                       30
  Apthorpe, Charles                                           33
  Apthorpe, Rev. Mr.                                          33
  Apthorpe, Susan                                             33
  Ashton, John                                                35
  Avery, John                                             55, 56

  BALCH, Rev. Mr.                                             29
  Balkum, Daniel                                              89
  Barnard, Benjamin                                           61
  Belknap, Jeremiah                                           29
  Bernard, Gov. Francis                           35, 36, 37, 46
  Blanchard, Caleb                                            84
  Bollan, William                                              9
  Bowditch, Nathaniel                                         42
  Bowdoin, Hon. James                                         33
  Bowdoin, Miss                                               33
  Brattle, William                                            63
  Breck, Samuel                                               88
  Brenton, Benjamin                                           54
  Britt, Thomas                                               59
  Brown, B.                                                   97
  Brown, Obadiah                                              64
  Bulfinch, Dr. Thomas                                        33
  Butler, Mr.                                                 21

  CALDWELL, JAMES                                             68
  Carpenter, Captain                                          19
  Carr, Colonel                                               68
  Chase, Samuel & William                                     21
  Clark, John                                                 68
  Clark, Stephen                                              13
  Clarke, Richard                                             59
  Clarke, Sukey                                               59
  Cole, Patrick                                               68
  Colman, Rev. Henry                                          97
  Cooper, William                                             20
  Copeland, E. Jr.                                            86
  Copley, John Singleton                                  59, 72
  Crocker, Cornelius                                          10
  Crosby, John                                                60

  DALAND, B.                                                  97
  Dalrymple, Colonel                                          68
  Dana, Rev. Mr.                                              81
  Darley, Arthur                                              57
  Davis, Joshua                                               60
  Deane, Rev. Samuel                                          93
  Deane, Mrs.                                                 93
  Deshon, Moses                                               15
  Douglass, Mr.                                           39, 41

  EASTLAKE, SIR CHARLES                                        6
  Edes & Gill                                        11,16,32,43
  Elliot, Sally                                               33
  Elliot, Simon                                       33, 85, 86
  Ellis, Mrs.                                                 91
  Ellis, Rev. Mr.                                             90
  Elwell, Edward H.                                           93
  Emerson, R.W.                                                6
  Erving, John                                                67

  FLEMMING, ALBERT                                            98
  Flynt, Henry                                            17, 18
  Fowle & Draper                                              48
  Franklin, Dr. Benjamin                                      24
  Franklin, Elizabeth                                         24

  GAY, MARTIN                                                 59
  Gordon, James                                               79
  Gorham, Joseph                                              10
  Gray, Samuel                                                68
  Green & Russell                                     34, 47, 52
  Greene, John                                                68
  Gwin, Captain                                               56

  HANCOCK, JOHN                                               69
  Haskell, Philemon                                           91
  Hawthorne, Nathaniel                                        42
  Henshaw, Joshua, Jr.                                        59
  Hickling, William                                           61
  Hill, Colonel John                                          59
  Hill, Katherine                                             59
  Holyoke, Edward                                             14
  Hudson, James                                                9
  Hurd, John                                              62, 63

  INCH, JOHN                                                  16

  JOHNSON, MR.                                                68

  KING CHARLES I.                                              5
  King George II.                                             10
  King George III.                                        37, 44

  LEE, FRANCIS H.                                             86
  Lewis, Phillip                                              71
  Loyal, Paul                                                 35

  MACAULAY, T.B.                                               5
  Marshall, Thomas                                            29
  Mason, Colonel David                                    39, 40
  Maverick, Samuel                                            68
  Micklefield, William                                86, 87, 88
  Minot, George R.                                            70
  Monk, Christopher                                           68
  Morgan, Captain                                         34, 35
  Morton, Captain                                             68
  Murray, Mrs.                                                82
  Murray, Rev. Mr.                                            82

  OLIVER, ANDREW                                              37

  PAINE, WILLIAM                                              50
  Parker, David                                               68
  Parkman, Samuel                                             80
  Payne, Edward                                               68
  Peirce, Benjamin                                            42
  Pelham, Charles                                             72
  Pelham, Mrs.                                                72
  Perkins, Thomas H.                                          33
  Phenix, John                                                 4
  Pickering, Colonel Timothy                              42, 46
  Pickering, John                                             42
  Pickering, Timothy, Sr.                                 44, 46
  Pope of Rome                                                85
  Poynton, Thomas                                         51, 52
  Prescott, John                                              39
  Prescott, William H.                                        42
  Preston, Captain                                            68
  Prince of Wales                                             28

  QUEEN ANNE                                                   6

  READ, THOMAS                                                16
  Revere, Paul                                                71
  Rhodes, Captain                                             84
  Rogers, Rev. Mr.                                            13
  Rowe, John                                                  54
  Ruskin, John                                                99
  Russell, Benjamin                                           25
  Russell, Daniel                                             65

  SALISBURY, ELIZABETH                                        67
  Salisbury, Samuel                                           67
  Savage, Samuel Phillips                                     63
  Scott, William                                              94
  Shays, Daniel                                               89
  Shirley, General William                                    28
  Spencer, Herbert                                             6
  Stevens, Captain                                            80
  Storr, Marmaduke                                            60
  Story, Joseph                                               42
  Story, William W.                                           42

  TEMPLE, HON. JOHN                                           33
  Thorn, Dr.                                                  50
  Treadwell, Jonathan                                         92

  UPHAM, CHARLES W.                                           47

  WASHINGTON, GEORGE                                           4
  Waters, Josiah                                              29
  Watson, Mr.                                                 21
  Webb, Joseph, Jr.                                           71
  Whipple, Joseph                                             90
  Whitefield, Rev. George                                 57, 58
  Whitmore, Major-General                                     66
  Wickham, Captain                                            56
  Winter, Joshua                                              80
  Willard, Joseph                                         75, 78
  Williams, Jonathan                                          70
  Wolfe, General James                                    25, 27
  Wood, William                                               13

[Illustration]




THE DAYS OF THE SPINNING-WHEEL

IN NEW ENGLAND.

       *       *       *       *       *

WITHIN the last few years many young ladies have searched country houses
or ransacked old garrets to find spinning-wheels, which, like old
chairs, tall clocks, and warming-pans, have now become objects of
curiosity and interest to those who take a fancy to antique articles. It
has become fashionable to have these things to adorn our Queen Anne
houses. And brass andirons and shovels and tongs have come into request,
so that we may enjoy the luxury of an open wood fire, which, to our
mind, is one of the most cheerful things in this world. Some one has
remarked "that to be well-dressed gives a feeling of satisfaction that
religion fails to give;" but to us, to sit before a blazing wood fire on
a dull, cold evening, gives a feeling of comfort and delight which
surpasses anything we know of. What charming companionship in a wood
fire! Better than the company of uncongenial persons.

    "Old wood to burn,"
    "Old books to read:"

these are enough; we will leave out the "old wine to drink."

      "This bright wood fire,
    So like to that which warmed and lit
    My youthful days, how doth it flit
      Back on the periods nigher!
    Re-lighting and re-warming with its glow
    The bright scenes of my youth,--all gone out now."

Glance backward to some years before the Revolution, and we shall find a
spinning-wheel in every house, and then, probably, in constant use. Now
its place in our homes is taken by the piano. This instrument had not
then come into use. Something resembling it,--namely, the spinnet or the
harpsichord,--was to be found in some instances; but it was by no means
common to find these, for there was but little knowledge of music in
America in those days. A hundred years ago, only one or two churches in
Boston had organs, and the public taste, except in rare cases, was
decidedly against music of all kinds, especially sacred music. To show
how this was, we have heard an old lady say that when she was young,
some eighty years or so ago, "musicians, for the most part, were not
thought much of" by the most cultivated people of that time; and she
assured me that even at a later date, members of military bands, as well
as organists and violinists (then called fiddlers) were too often low
characters and men much addicted to drinking. The times were too hard
for the New England people of those days to cultivate music or indulge
in entertainments of any kind except "going to meeting." There was but
little money in circulation, and that was almost always in the form of a
depreciated currency. Gold and silver were scarce articles, and a large
proportion of the necessities of life and luxuries--if luxuries they
could be called; they would hardly be so considered by us--were imported
from England or elsewhere. The leading occupations were farming,
fishing, making New England rum, importing rum, sugar, and molasses
from the West Indies, and dry goods from England. The common people were
poor enough, in comparison with the condition of the same class at the
present time, when they make as good an appearance as the wealthy did a
hundred years ago. It would be safe to say that they have more comforts
and conveniences in their homes to-day than the more prosperous had at
the time of the Revolution. The humorist, John Phenix, said that "Gen'l
Washington never saw a steamboat, nor rode in a railroad car;" and
possibly his house was not heated by steam, or furnished with pipes for
hot and cold water. Nor did he ever use gas, or the telegraph or
telephone. Whether the people who lived then would have shown the
extravagance which characterizes our time if they had possessed the
means, is a question not easily to be answered; but it is certain they
were more frugal than we are, if not more industrious. The Revolution
left the masses of the people in rather a destitute condition, and they
were forced to be economical. Their habits were so entirely different
from modern habits that it would exceed our limits to undertake to draw
a careful comparison. It is said that the people of those days bewailed
the degeneracy of the times, and spoke of the industry and frugality of
earlier periods.

                                  NORWICH, May 6, 1784.

    A correspondent observes, that the extravagances of the
    present day are fully demonstrated in the broadcloth coats
    and silk gowns,--the powder and feathers, the ruffles and
    cardinals, the silk stockings and feet trappings--In the
    feasts, the dancing parties and select companies--and what
    is the more melancholy, all orders and degrees help form the
    circle.--Where is the simplicity in dress and manners;
    temperance in meats and drinks, which formed the virtuous
    characters of our illustrious ancestors?--O! the degeneracy
    of the times!

                                               _Salem Gazette._

Just as our ancestors did, as Macaulay says, in the days of Charles the
First; they thought they were not as good as their ancestors had been.
This habit of looking back to a time so remote that "distance lends
enchantment to the view," seems to be almost universal. It is this
feeling of reverence for the old that makes it so interesting to us, and
leads us to look at things of the past poetically rather than
practically; although it is true that sometimes the interest taken in
inconvenient and uncomfortable articles arises rather from their age
than from anything else. But oftentimes the very simplicity, solidity,
and strength of old furniture, for instance, is charming, in contrast
with the elaborate, unmeaning carvings and flimsy character of more
modern productions. We are beginning to see how much more sensible the
Chippendale and other styles commended by Eastlake and some other
writers on household art are to much that has been produced in later
times. Yet we must allow that prejudice and fashion go a great way in
determining our likes and dislikes, in furniture as well as in dress and
other things. Very likely in a few years we shall tire of the Queen Anne
houses and furniture, and hard floors, and have a surfeit of
_Anglomania_, especially if we carry the taste too far. In this country,
as Emerson says, "Every rider drives too fast." It is hard to be simple
and slow. We must build fast, eat fast, and live fast. But Emerson says
again, "Nature has no respect for haste." Herbert Spencer has given us
in a kindly spirit some hints on this score which it would be well to
heed. But we are wandering from our immediate subject. Our desire is to
illustrate, in the very words of the people of the period we refer to,
the views they entertained of economy and industry, and how they carried
them out. We will begin, then, in the year 1759, with a curious letter
to the "Boston Gazette" of June 11 of that year, in which the writer
gives some account of the cost of provisions at that period.

    _To the Trading and Farming People of_ New England.

        GENTLEMEN.

    I Have been coming and going among you since the Year 1745.
    I am now once more on Service in this Part of the World, and
    not a little surprized at the Alteration in the Value of
    your Provisions, since my Knowledge of your Country. When I
    first came among you, I could have bought a Pound of Beef
    for a Penny, a Goose for a Shilling, a Fowl for three Pence,
    and so in Proportion. It now is, I think, four Pence
    Sterling for a Pound of Beef, eighteen Pence Sterling for a
    Fowl, and three Shillings for a Goose. Pray Gentlemen, when
    that is the Price at _Boston_, what must we pay for it at
    _Louisbourg_, after it has gone thro' the Hands of many
    different People that are to live out of it. Our Pay is not
    increased.

    I would say nothing to influence you to sell cheaper, from
    Motives disinterested or publick spirited, as that weighs
    but little with the Generality of Mankind. But consider your
    own Interest, the War can last but little longer: This
    Campaign, in all Probability, will put an End to it, then
    where will you find a Market for your Stock you raise.
    Consider with the Fall of this present Summer, its pretty
    certain the Soldiers and Seamen at present employed for your
    Defence, will be called to Britain: Take the Market while it
    holds Gentlemen. We have Beef found us, that is to say, the
    Publick purchases it; let us now and then taste of your
    Veal, Mutton and Fowls for our Money, and we will spend all
    among you; and we expect both Interest and Inclination will
    prompt you to give us an ample Supply.

    I am your Friend, _An_ ANTI-CANADIAN.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the same paper is an auction advertisement, showing how they mixed
the different kinds of _property_.

    TO be Sold by publick Vendue on _Scarlet's_ Wharff, at the
    North End of _Boston_, THIS AFTERNOON, at IV o'Clock, Sundry
    Hogsheads of Sugar, four likely Negro Men, and a Parcel of
    old Copper; Prize Goods lately brought into this Port.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the 19th November we are shown how remittances were made in those
days.

    We hear that the Treasurer of this Province has received a
    Bill of Lading for two Boxes of Portugal Gold, ship'd by Mr.
    Agent Bollan, on board the Mercury Man of War, amounting to
    Twenty thousand six hundred and eighty Pounds, seventeen
    shillings and six Pence; being Part of the £27,000 granted
    by Parliament in 1757, to this Province, to recompence them
    for the Expences they were at in the Expedition in
    1756.--Said Ship may be daily expected.

       *       *       *       *       *

And here is a description of a vessel of the time.

    Mr. James Hudson came Passenger in the Vessel that arriv'd
    at Cape-Ann, mention'd in our last, which saw a Wreck in
    Lat: 36, he says, she was a Frigate built Ship of about 200
    Tons burthen, had a Lion Head painted yellow, a short Topgal
    on Quarter-Deck, a small Tafrail painted yellow, Quarters
    and Stern painted blue, had a large Trophies painted on her
    Stern and gilt, full of Water, and no living Person on
    board.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the 5th February in that year, this was the way they advertised for
recruits for the Government service, offering among other inducements,
"a Crown to drink the King's health."

    ALL able-bodied fit Men that have an Inclination to serve
    His Majesty King GEORGE the Second, in the first Independent
    Company of Rangers, now in the Province of _Nova-Scotia_,
    commanded by _Joseph Gorham, Esq_; shall, on inlisting,
    receive good Pay and Cloathing, a large Bounty, with a Crown
    to drink the King's Health. And by repairing to the Sign of
    the Bear in King-Street, _Boston_, and to Mr. _Cornelius
    Crocker_, Innholder in _Barnstable_, may hear the particular
    Encouragement, and many Advantages accruing to a Soldier, in
    the Course of the Duty of that Company, too long to insert
    here; and further, may depend on being discharged at the
    Expiration of the Time entertained for, and to have every
    other Encouragement punctually compli'd with.

       *       *       *       *       *

There was a meeting of "very agreeable Ladies" in the interests of
economy about the same time.

    In a large Circle of very agreeable Ladies in this Town, it
    was unanimously agreed to lay aside the Use of Ribbons, &c.
    &c. &c. for which there has been so great a Resort to
    Milliners in times past----It is hoped that this Resolution
    will be followed by others of the Sex throughout the
    Province--_How agreeable will they appear in their native
    Beauty, stript of these Ornaments, from the prevailing
    Motive of Love to their Country._

    We must after all our Efforts, depend greatly upon the
    Female Sex for the Introduction of Oeconomy among us: And
    those who have the Pleasure of an Acquaintance with them,
    assure us that their utmost Aid will not be wanting.

    So strong is the Disposition of the Inhabitants of this Town
    to take off the Manufactures that come from the Country
    Towns, especially Womens and Childrens Winter Apparel, that
    nothing is wanting but an Advertisement where they may be
    had in Town, which will be taken in, and published by the
    Printers of this Paper _Gratis_.

       *       *       *       *       *

Labrador tea began to take the place of green and bohea.

    Messieurs EDES & GILL,

    THE use of _Hyperion_ or _Labradore Tea_, is every day
    coming into more general vogue among people of all ranks.
    The virtues of the plant or shrub from which this delicate
    _Tea_ is gathered, were first discovered by the
    _Aborigines_, and from them the _Canadians_ learned them. It
    soon became into such repute that quantities were sent to
    _France_, where I have heard say, it was soon in such
    demand, as alarmed the _French East-India_ company, and
    procured an ordinance prohibiting the importation of any
    more on the pain of death. So little do some politicians
    regard the health or even the life of man, when either of
    them appear to be incompatible with their particular
    interests, views and projects. Before the cession of
    _Canada_ to _Great-Britain_, we knew little or nothing of
    this most excellent herb: but since that we have been taught
    to find it growing on every hill and dale, between the Lat.
    40 & 60. It is to be found all over New-England in great
    plenty, and that of the best quality, particularly on the
    banks of _Penobscot_, _Kennebeck_, _Nichewannock_ and
    _Merrimac_. Immense quantities may be found on the mountains
    near the great lakes.

    Nothing short of the highest degree of infatuation and
    madness could ever have prevailed with us to introduce
    unwholesome Exoticks. The voice of reason crys louder than
    ever for their perpetual banishment; and the further use of
    them must be accounted for but by the force of invincible
    prejudice. This indeed sometimes leads to a preference of
    rank poison if far fetched and dear bought, to the most
    salubrious draught at hand, with little pains or cost, tho'
    of inestimable value.

                                                A TEA-DRINKER.

       *       *       *       *       *

The following items, Sept. 17, 1759, throw some light on the state of
the country in some parts of New England, where, even if the "Lyons"
once seen at Cape Ann by Wood had departed, there were still some bears,
one having been seen within two miles of Boston.

    We hear from Brentwood, in New Hampshire Government, as two
    Children were gathering Beans in a Field, a large Bear came
    upon them and kill'd them both;--The Bear was pursued, but
    could not be found.

    Also from Chester, in the same Government, that a few Days
    after the above, another Bear came behind a Woman as she was
    walking along, not far from her House, and tore off the hind
    Part of her Gown, which he carried off in his Mouth;--but
    the Woman happily made her Escape from him.

    And from Kingston, in the County of Worcester, we hear, that
    on Tuesday last as Mr. Stephen Clark of that Town was out a
    Hunting after Bears, his Next Door Neighbour went out into
    his Cornfield just at Evening, and seeing something move
    which he thought was one of those Animals, shott at it, and
    upon his coming to the place, found it to be Mr. Clark as
    above-mention'd, shot thro' his Head, to his great surprize.

    We hear from Kittery, that in about 13 Days past, seven
    large Bears have been kill'd within a Mile of the Rev. Mr.
    Rogers's Meeting House.

    It is said some of these voracious Animals have ventured
    down even to some of the Seaport Towns at the
    Eastward.--Two of them were seen at Medford last Week; and
    one of them has been lately killed within two Miles of this
    Metropolis. Some have weighed above 300 lb. Wt.

       *       *       *       *       *

Notice to Students of Harvard College:

    _THIS is to give Notice to the Candidates for their second
    Degree at_ Harvard-College _this Year, that they attend at
    the College by the 11th Day of_ July _next, and if any shall
    neglect their Attendance accordingly, without sufficient
    Reason therefor, they may not expect their said Degrees this
    Year._                              Cambridge, June 9, 1759.

                                      EDWARD HOLYOKE, President.

    _NOTICE is hereby given to all who desire an Admission into_
    Harvard College _this Year, That the President and Tutors
    have determined to attend the Business of Examination on
    Friday and Saturday the 19th and 20th Days of_ July _next._

    Cambridge, June 9, 1759. EDWARD HOLYOKE, Pres.

       *       *       *       *       *

When we remember the present condition of the city of Lynn, it is
interesting to note how that place stood in reference to the shoe
industry in the year 1762. The "Boston Gazette" of November 2 says:--

    We are confidently told, that in the Town of Lynn upwards of
    Forty Thousand Pair of Womens Shoes have been made in one
    Year, equal in Goodness to any imported from Abroad--It is
    thought that in a few Years they will be supply'd with
    Callimanco and other Stuffs manufactured in this Province.

       *       *       *       *       *

The statement has often been made by connoisseurs that there was no
mahogany furniture in America before the Revolution; but this is a
mistake, for here, in the "Boston Gazette" of Feb. 5, 1759, is an
advertisement announcing the sale of a "Beautiful Mehogany Desk and
Book-Case." Probably this was an early specimen of such kind of work, as
mahogany, it is said, was not introduced into Europe long before this
time.

                _To be Sold by_ Moses Deshon,

    On Dock-Square, Next Wednesday, at V o'Clock, in the
    Afternoon, and Friday Evening following.

    _A Handsome 8 Day Clock, a Brass Grate, Shovel Fire, Tongs,
    Tables, and a Variety of other Articles; a fine Assortment
    of English, Scotch, and French Goods._ N.B. _A beautiful
    Mehogany Desk and Book-Case; and a Quantity of Cannon-Powder
    to dispose of at private Sale._

       *       *       *       *       *

A curious advertisement of a runaway convict in Maryland appears in the
same paper, Sept. 15, 1759:--

                  Fifteen Pistoles Reward.

    RAN-AWAY from the Subscriber, (living at ANNAPOLIS, in
    MARYLAND) in _June_ last, a Convict Servant Man, named
    _Thomas Read_, alias _Cutbert_, about 25 or 30 Years of Age,
    5 Feet, 4 Inches high, well set, grey Eyes, large Nose, and
    had short brown curl'd Hair. He is supposed to be in
    _Boston_, or some of the Northern Governments; is a
    Jeweller, and Motto-Ring-Engraver, and is an artful
    talkative pert Fellow;--can write pretty well, and has
    doubtless help'd himself to a Discharge, Pass, or any other
    Writing to deceive, and suit his Purpose; His Apparel is
    probably genteel, as he had Money with him, a Watch in his
    Pocket, and a large Stock of Pride; By what Name he now goes
    is uncertain, as he has Impudence eno to pick & chuse any he
    should think proper.

    Whoever takes the said Convict Servant, and returns him to
    his Master, shall have FIFTEEN PISTOLES Reward, and
    reasonable Charges paid, by

    _Annapolis, September 15, 1759._                  JOHN INCH.

    Boston, Printed and Sold by EDES & GILL. 1759.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the year 1762 there appears to have been quite a stir in reference to
economy and home productions, and doubtless the spinning-wheels were
constantly in use. In the "Boston Gazette," November 2, is a very
curious letter of Henry Flynt, a noted teacher, addressed to the ladies
of North America.


                _To the_ LADIES _of_ NORTH AMERICA.

    LADIES,

    _I AM one of those who think it not only high Time but of
    the last Importance, that you should be publickly addressed:
    And of the many ingenious Pens, which in the Course of a few
    Years have informed and enlightened this Country, I have
    often wished that at least some one of them had been more
    particularly devoted to your Service. This would have
    agreeably prevented me in an attempt to which I find myself
    in all Respects but too unequal. Yet relying on your good
    Sense and Candour, I venture to lay at your Feet a few
    well-intended Sentiments, which tho' in a plain homespun
    Garb, I hope will not offend. I am convinced that at this
    present it is not only in your Inclination and Will, but
    also in your Power, to effect more in favour of your
    Country, than an Army of an Hundred Thousand Men; and indeed
    more than all the armed Men on this vast Continent._--Can a
    Woman forget her Ornaments? _Yes I know she can._ Deborah
    _once judged Israel, and some think it was never judged
    much better afterwards. But what tho't_ Deborah _or_ Jael
    _of their Ornaments, when the one was contriving, & the
    other driving the Nail that would go? What tho't beautiful_
    Esther _of her Ornaments, when those of her Kindred &
    Houshold were in immediate and imminent Danger, by the
    Decree treacherously obtained by_ Haman, _from the mouth of
    her beloved and almost adored_ Lord Ahasuerus _the Great?
    What tho't_ Judith _of her Ornaments, when she was severing
    the Head of_ Holofernes _from his Body, or while flying with
    the Prize to the Relief of her despairing Friends? The Time
    would fail me, were I to recount the wondrous Deeds and
    mighty Atchievements of renowned and honorable Women in all
    Ages._

    _I have but alluded to a few Instances, among many of divine
    Heroism in your Sex, which hath often saved a Country, when
    the dull ploding Wisdom of man has been totally at a Plunge.
    How near we are to such a_ Crisis, _is left to the
    Conjecture of others. It would be a little out of Nature to
    expect the Birth and Exploits of Heroines to take Place
    before those of Heroes. I believe we shall be furnished with
    both in their Order, as Occasion may require. All I think at
    present that can be reasonably expected or desired of you,
    is to consent to lay aside all superfluous Ornaments for a
    Season--after which they shall be surely returned to you
    again with Interests.--You shall be cloathed in Purple, and
    Scarlet, and Fine Linnen of our own, and with other glorious
    Apparel; which, if possible, shall add a Lustre to your
    native Charms._

                                                    HENRY FLYNT.

       *       *       *       *       *

Newport, R.I., has the reputation of having been engaged in the
slave-trade before the Revolution; and the following item, in the
"Boston Gazette," June 30, 1762, noticing without comment the arrival of
a Guinea trader there, would seem to show it to have been not an
uncommon occurrence.

    We hear from Newport, Rhode Island, That Capt. Carpenter was
    arrived there from the Coast of Guinea, having had 104 Days
    Passage, ten Days whereof they were without Meat, but had a
    Sufficiency of Rice and Corn. They lost but six Slaves out
    of 69 they bro't out with them.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the 5th of November "the gunpowder treason and plot" was formerly
pretty generally remembered,--by the boys, at least, who made bonfires
and burned tar-barrels. We believe the custom has fallen into disuse
except in Salem and Marblehead, where there seems to be a little
"Colonialism" left. As recently as 1885 the writer saw a bonfire in
honor of the occasion on a hill near the latter place. In 1762 there
must have been quite a demonstration, if we can judge anything by a
vote of the town of Boston. Englishmen visiting us have sometimes
expressed astonishment at learning that this curious custom should still
be kept up here, while it had been abolished at home.

    Upon a motion made, _Voted_, That the Town will take all
    proper Measures, by keeping in their Children and Servants,
    & other Ways, to prevent the Disturbances which have
    sometimes happened on or about the 5th Day of November.

             Attest,
                  William Cooper, _Town-Clerk_.

    _Tuesday last (5th November) being the Anniversary of the
    happy Deliverance of the British Nation from the Popish
    Powder Plot, at Noon the Guns at Castle William and at the
    Batteries in this Town were fired: At One all the nine Men
    of War then in this Harbour also fired._

                      From the _Essex Gazette_, Nov. 12, 1771.

The accommodation offered for travel between Boston and New York before
the Revolution must have been slim enough, judging from an advertisement
in the "Boston Gazette" in 1761. Passengers then went by vessel from
Providence; that is, "Gentlemen Passengers." Whether ladies were
accommodated or not, does not appear; but perhaps they were in the habit
of going by stage, taking a week or so to accomplish the journey, or,
more than likely, few ever travelled at all in those times. In our day,
when every one is on the move, it is hard to realize this state of
things.

       *       *       *       *       *

    _Notice is Given, That SAMUEL and WILLIAM CHACE, of_
    Providence, _have a suitable Vessel that goes steadily
    between there and_ New-York. _So that all Gentlemen
    Passengers and others that incline to take the Rout from_
    Boston _to_ New-York, _or from_ New-York _to_ Boston, _may
    be well accommodated._

                                    Providence, Aug. 29, 1761.

"In 1756," Watson says, "the first stage was started between
Philadelphia and New York by Mr. Butler; three days through in summer
time, five and six in winter. In 1765 a second stage was started, to go
through positively in three days. This was a covered Jersey
wagon,--fare, twopence per mile. In 1766 another stage, called the
'Flying Machine,' was started, to go through in two days,--threepence
per mile."

       *       *       *       *       *

A brief account of Montreal in the "Boston Gazette," March 30, 1761.

                        NEW-YORK, March 23.

                Extract of a Letter from Montreal.

    ----"The Case of the poor Canadians is really deplorable,
    occasioned by the bankruptcy of the crown of France. Many of
    them who had, with great danger and labour, acquired estates
    worth 20,000 l. sterl. by the fur-trade, or otherwise, can
    now scarce procure a dinner. All their remittances from
    their mother country, consisted in bills on the French King,
    which are not now worth one farthing, as no body whatever
    will accept of them in payment. It is computed there is
    above the value of 3,000,000 l. sterling of these useless
    paper scraps, circulated through the colony, which, as a
    reward to the wretched inhabitants for all their hardships
    and fatigues, must now supply the place of affluence and
    independence. Most, if not all of them, are perfectly
    reconciled to the British government, as they can now with
    security enjoy any little property they have; whereas
    formerly, Governor Vaudreuil made no ceremony of seizing the
    produce of their lands, their merchandize and manufactures
    of every kind, and after conveying them to the King's store
    houses, paid to the proprietors any price he pleased. If the
    owners thereafter had occasion for any of their own
    commodities, they could not procure them under twenty times
    the price they had received.

    "Montreal in general is a well built town, but incapable of
    any defence. The churches are elegant, and the houses of
    some of their principal men are really magnificent; though
    few in number. The Hotel Dieu is by far the finest hospital
    I ever saw, every thing in it is extremely neat and
    convenient.

    "The people here are extravagantly fond of dress; a stranger
    would take Montreal to be a city inhabited by none but the
    rich and idle: they are all finely powdered, walk with their
    hats under their arms, and wear long coats, adorned with
    tinsel lace, and buttoned down to the extremity. Since I
    came here, I have not seen one man dressed like a tradesman.
    The ladies in general are handsome, extremely gay, and well
    bred."

       *       *       *       *       *

In 1767 the best soap and "dipt" and "mould" candles were sold at the
post-office in Boston, according to an advertisement in the "Gazette" of
October 26. The candles were made of tallow, and gave but little light,
requiring almost constant snuffing. Other kinds of candles were not in
general use in New England in the last century. Sperm oil and sperm or
wax candles could be used only by the wealthy. Many families, for
economy, made their own candles. This practice was common in New England
down to within fifty years.

It will be recollected that Dr. Franklin's father was a tallow-chandler
in Boston, and that the Doctor himself worked at the business when a
boy. Elizabeth Franklin, whose name appears in the following
advertisement, was probably a relative of the family.

       *       *       *       *       *

                            SOLD BY
                     _Elizabeth Franklin,_
                      At the Post-Office,

    THE best true Crown Soap, Alicant best hard Soap, by the
    Doz. or single Pound, dipt and mould Candles at the lowest
    Price.

       *       *       *       *       *

Every week the burials and baptisms in Boston were thus inserted in the
papers. The following is from the "Gazette" of Nov. 23, 1767:--

    Buried in the Town of Boston since our last, Five Whites.
    Three Blacks. Baptiz'd in the several Churches, Four.

       *       *       *       *       *

This custom was continued many years. We take the following from the
"Massachusetts Centinel," April 2, 1788:--

    BURIED _in town last week_ 11--BAPTISED 14.

    Published by BENJAMIN RUSSELL, near the State-House, Boston.

       *       *       *       *       *

General Wolfe's Manifesto from the "Boston Gazette," Dec. 10, 1759.

    _As the Manifesto lately published was only a Translation
    from a French Manuscript, we are requested to publish the
    following, which is_

                  _General_ WOLFE's Manifesto,
                    _as written by Himself._

    THE formidable Sea and Land Armament which the People of
    _Canada_ now behold in the Heart of their Country is
    intended by the King my Master to check the insolence of
    _France_;--To revenge the Insults offered to the _British_
    Colonies, and totally deprive the _French_ of their most
    valuable Settlements in _North-America_.

    For these Purposes only is the Formidable Army under my
    Command intended.

    The King of _Great-Britain_ wages no War with the
    Industrious Peasant, the sacred Orders of Religion, or the
    defenceless Women and Children: To these in their
    distressful Circumstances His Royal Clemency offers
    Protection. The People may remain unmolested on their Lands,
    inhabit their Houses, and enjoy their Religion in Security.
    For these inestimable Blessings, I expect the _Canadians_
    will take no Part in the Great Contest between the two
    Crowns; But if by a vain Obstinacy, and misguided Valour,
    they presume to appear in Arms, they must expect the most
    fatal Consequences; their Habitations destroyed, their
    sacred Temples exposed to the Fury of an exasperated
    Soldiery; their Harvest utterly ruined, and the only Passage
    of Relief stopped up by a most formidable Fleet.--In this
    unhappy Situation, and closely attacked by another great
    Army, what can the wretched Natives expect from Opposition!

    THE unparelelled Barbarities exerted by the _French_ against
    our Settlements in _America_, might justify the bitterest
    Revenge in the Army under my Command; but _Britons_ breathe
    higher Sentiments of Humanity, and listen to the merciful
    Dictates of the Christian Religion. Yet should you suffer
    yourselves to be deluded by an imaginary Prospect of our
    want of Success; should you refuse those Terms, and persist
    in Opposition; Then surely will the Law of Nations justify
    the Waste of War, so necessary to crush an ungenerous Enemy:
    and Then, the miserable _Canadians_ must in the Winter have
    the Mortification of seeing those very Families, they have
    been exerting a fruitless and indiscreet Bravery for, perish
    by the most dismal Want and Famine.

    In this great Dilemma let the Wisdom of the People of
    _Canada_ shew itself!

    _BRITAIN_ stretches out a powerful, yet a merciful Hand,
    Faithful to her Engagements, and ready to secure them in
    their most valuable Rights and Possessions.

    _FRANCE_, unable to support _Canada_, deserts her Cause at
    this important Crisis, and during the whole War has assisted
    her with Troops, who have been maintained _only_ by making
    the Natives feel all the Weight of grievous and lawless
    Oppression.

                                                    JAMES WOLFE.

       *       *       *       *       *

                                    Boston, _November 2, 1761_.

    _Last Evening, just at Eight o'Clock, this Town was alarmed
    with the Shock of an_ EARTHQUAKE.

                                                   _Gazette._

       *       *       *       *       *

On the 15th of August, 1763, the "Boston Post-Boy" gives the following
account of the celebration of a royal birthday:--

                      _BOSTON, August 15._

    On Friday being the Birth-Day of the _Prince of Wales_, and
    the Anniversary of the Accession of the House of _Hanover_,
    and also of the Surrender of the _Havanna_, which was the
    immediate Means of bringing about the Peace; at One o'Clock
    the Guns at the Castle and Town Batteries were Fired; and in
    the Evening his Excellency the Governor gave a Ball at
    Concert Hall. There were present about 240 Gentlemen and
    Ladies; the Ball was opened by General _Shirley_ and the
    Governor's Lady about 8 o'Clock; the Country Dances began
    about nine, and about ten a Supper Room was opened, where
    was a very handsome Collation. The Ladies made a brilliant
    Appearance, and the Company expressed the highest Pleasure
    and Satisfaction on the Occasion, and broke up about two in
    the Morning. The whole was conducted with the greatest
    Order, Elegance and Decorum.

       *       *       *       *       *

The great military "occasion" of those days was the annual parade of the
Ancient and Honorable Artillery Company. In June, 1763, that Company
celebrated its one hundred and twenty-fifth anniversary. In the "Boston
Post-Boy" of June 13 we have this account:--

    Monday last, agreeable to ancient Custom, the Artillery
    Company of the Province, appeared under Arms, being the
    Anniversary of the Election of Officers for the Company: A
    Sermon was preached by the Rev'd Mr. _Balch_ of _Dedham_, at
    the Old Brick Meeting-House, where his Excellency the
    Governor, the Members of his Majesty's Council and House of
    Representatives, with a Number of other Gentlemen, attended;
    after which they proceeded to Faneuil-Hall, where an elegant
    Dinner was provided; and in the Afternoon the following
    Gentlemen were chosen for the ensuing Year, viz.

                 _Thomas Marshall_, Esq; Captain,
                 Mr. _Josiah Waters_, Lieutenant,
                 Mr. _Jeremiah Belknap_, Ensign.

    In the Evening a plentiful Repast was given by the Officers
    newly elected, at Faneuil-Hall; where many loyal Healths
    were drank.

       *       *       *       *       *

After the great fire in Boston in March, 1760, this item appeared in the
"Gazette" of May 19:--

    We hear that _Charles Ward Apthorp_, Esq; of _N.-York_,
    Merchant, upon hearing of the Calamity which had befallen
    this Town by the late dreadful Fire, generously ordered his
    Agent here to pay to the Gentlemen appointed to receive the
    Donations of charitable dispos'd Persons the Sum of _One
    Hundred_ Pounds, L.M. for the Relief of the Sufferers.

Mr. Apthorp, of New York, made this generous donation--a large sum for
that time--for the relief of the sufferers of his native place.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the 30th of March, 1761, the "Boston Gazette" prints the following
among its items of news:--

    _The following Proverbs we hope will not be disregarded,
    tho' taken from a Book in the Hands of almost every
    Freeholder in this Province; for they are true English
    Proverbs_----

    _LOOK before you leap--Wise Men think twice before they act
    once--Avoidance is better than late Repentance--Put your
    Hand in the Lion's Mouth, then get it out if you can--Haste
    makes Waste--Fast bind fast find--A Wedge once enter'd, the
    Log flies--You may add, when you cannot take away--Cut your
    Coat according to your Cloth--A rash Beginning makes a
    foolish Ending--Better late than never--He that acts for
    others, should act with Caution--Once well done is twice
    done--A wise Man foreseeth the Storm and secureth
    himself----Of all Murderers, Self-Murderers are the most
    stupid--A Snake in the Grass may bite before it is seen._

           A Word to the Wise is sufficient. AMEN.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOSTON IN OLDEN TIMES.--The "Boston Transcript," in a notice of the
newspapers published in Boston in 1767, of which there were ten, says:
The printer in those days was a man of "all work." If a negro or horse
was up for sale, the printer was the seller. The advertisements in these
old papers are curiosities in their line. The following notices appeared
in the advertising columns of the "Boston Evening Gazette," in 1741:--

    "To be sold by the Printer of this Paper, the very best
    negro woman in this town, who has had the small pox and the
    measles; is as hearty as a horse, as brisk as a bird, and
    will work like a beaver."

    "To be sold by the Printer of this Paper, a negro man about
    thirty years old, who can do both town and country business
    very well, but will suit the country best, where they have
    not so many dram-shops as we have in Boston. He has worked
    at the printing business fifteen or sixteen years; can
    handle axe, saw, spade, hoe, or other instrument of
    husbandry, as well as most men, and values himself, and is
    valued by others, for his skill in cookery."

       *       *       *       *       *

This item, from a paper of 1767, seems to show that the Government was
not then obliged to have a "bill" to uphold silver, for it was evidently
in the ascendency; but there was no Western territory at that time, or
rather, it had not been discovered.

    Gold as well as Silver will be taken for the Tickets, and
    the Prizes paid off in like Manner. Prizes not demanded
    within Twelve Months after Drawing, will not be paid, but
    will be deem'd as generously given for the Purpose
    aforesaid, and applied accordingly.

    Tickets to be had of the respective Managers, and of Edes
    and Gill.

       *       *       *       *       *

Fashionable weddings in the days of the spinning-wheel were not so fully
described as they are at the present day. Nothing used to be said about
the "magnificent dresses," "best man," "ushers," "contracting parties,"
"elegant presents," etc., etc.; there was a simple announcement of the
fact. Here are specimens of marriage announcements,--persons belonging
to the first families in Boston.

                 "Boston Gazette," Feb. 5, 1759.

    Last Thursday Morning, was married at King's-Chappel, Dr.
    THOMAS BULFINCH, Son of the late Dr. BULFINCH of this Town,
    to Mrs. SUSAN APTHORPE, Daughter of the late CHARLES
    APTHORPE, Esq; The Rev'd Mr. APTHORPE perform'd the
    Ceremony, before a very great Number of Spectators.

       *       *       *       *       *

               "Columbian Centinel," March 26, 1788.

    ----Mr. THOMAS H. PERKINS, merchant, to Miss SALLY ELLIOT,
    only daughter of Mr. SIMON ELLIOT.

       *       *       *       *       *

                    "Gazette," Jan. 26, 1767.

                    BOSTON, January 26, 1767.

    Tuesday the Honorable JOHN TEMPLE, Esq; Surveyor-General of
    North-America, was married to Miss BOWDOIN, Daughter of the
    Honorable JAMES BOWDOIN, Esq; of this Town.

       *       *       *       *       *

Specimen of a house in "Corn-Hill," from the "Post-Boy," May 7, 1763.

    [Illustration]

                          TO BE SOLD,

    A Large and Commodious Brick Dwelling-House, pleasently
    scituated in Corn-Hill: For further particulars Enquire of
    _Green & Russell_ Printers in Queen-street.

       *       *       *       *       *

The "Virginia Gazette" gives an account of an early and bold attempt at
British impressment of seamen. This business caused us a great deal of
trouble in after years, and was one of the causes of "Madison's War," as
the old people were fond of calling it.

The press-gang was one of the peculiar institutions of Great Britain.

                                       BOSTON, October 26, 1767.

    By the Virginia Gazette, of the first Instant, it appears
    that Captain Morgan, of the Hornet Sloop of War, concerted a
    bloody riotous Plan, to impress Seamen, at Norfolk, for
    which Purpose, his Tender was equipped with Guns and Men,
    and under Cover of the Night said Morgan landed at a public
    Wharff, having first made proper Dispositions either for an
    Attack or Retreat, then went to a Tavern, and took a
    chearful Glass, after which they went to work, and took
    every Person they met with, and knocked all down that
    resisted; and dragged them on board the Tender; but the Town
    soon took the Alarm, and being headed by Paul Loyal, Esq; a
    Magistrate, they endeavoured to convince Capt. Morgan of his
    Error, and being deaf to all they said he ordered the People
    in the Tender to fire on the Inhabitants, but they refused
    to obey their Commanders Orders, and he was soon obliged to
    fly, leaving some of the Hornets behind, who were sent to
    Gaol, but were afterwards released.

Mr. John Ashton, in his recently published work on "Social Life in
England at the end of the Eighteenth Century," informs us that one
evening in the year 1790, 2,100 men were pressed in London alone,
besides many more at the seaport towns.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the summer of 1762 there was a severe drought in Massachusetts, and
the Governor issued a proclamation recommending public prayers for rain;
but it will be noticed that he says if rain should come before the day
set apart for prayers, then, instead of humiliation, it would be the
duty of the people to make it a day of thanksgiving. The proclamation
referred to was published in the "Boston Post-Boy" of July 13, 1762.

    [Illustration]

                           By HIS EXCELLENCY

                         FRANCIS BERNARD, Esq;

    Captain-General and Governor in Chief, in and over His
    Majesty's Province of _Massachusetts-Bay_ in _New-England_,
    and Vice-Admiral of the same.

                            A PROCLAMATION

                    _For a Day of Public Prayer._

    IT having pleased Almighty God to visit this Province with
    another severe Drought, which, if it should continue much
    longer, cannot fail of bringing great Distress upon the
    Inhabitants thereof--We are again called upon to supplicate
    the Interposition of Divine Providence to relieve this
    Country from the imminent Danger with which it is threatned,
    by dispensing timely and plentiful Rain.

    I HAVE therefore thought fit to appoint, and I do, by and
    with the Advice of His Majesty's Council, appoint Wednesday
    the Twenty-eighth Day of this Instant _July_ to be a Day of
    Public Prayer throughout the Province: Whereon the whole
    People may as at one Time humble themselves before Almighty
    God, acknowledging their great Unworthiness, and confessing
    their manifold Sins, and imploring the Supreme Dispenser of
    all Good, that He would be graciously pleased not to
    with-hold from them the Fruits of the Earth, but by
    seasonable and refreshing Rains bring what yet remains
    undestroyed to a due and seasonable Maturity.

    AND WHEREAS some Places have been exempted from the general
    Want of Rain; and it is to be hoped that before the Day
    appointed as aforesaid, many others, and possibly the whole
    Province, may have a gracious and timely Relief: It will be
    our Duty to intermix Thanksgiving with Humiliation, in such
    a Manner as the State of the Province, and particular Parts
    thereof, shall at that Time require.

    And I do order the said Day to be observed as a Day set
    apart for Religious Worship, and that no servile Labour or
    Recreation be permitted thereon.

    _GIVEN at the Council-Chamber in_ Boston, _the Ninth Day of_
    July, 1762, _in the Second Year of the Reign of our
    Sovereign Lord_ GEORGE _the Third, by the Grace of GOD, of_
    Great-Britain, France, _and_ Ireland, _KING, Defender of the
    Faith_, &c.


                                                 _Fra. Bernard._

    By His Excellency's Command,
      A. OLIVER, Secr'y.
        GOD Save the KING.

       *       *       *       *       *

Fire-works to be "play'd off," Aug. 13, 1759. From the "Boston Gazette."

    The Publick REJOICINGS in Town this Day, on Account of the
    Success of His Majesty's Arms in the Reduction of
    Ticonderoga, Niagara and Crown-Point, by the Troops under
    the Command of the victorious General AMHERST, are now
    beginning--A great Number of People have been employ'd in
    making Fire-Works, &c. which will be play'd off this
    Evening, when there will be a handsome illumination.

       *       *       *       *       *

The "Post-Boy" of November 15 of that year prints the following:--

                      NEW-YORK, November 15.

    The Ships Manchester and Edward, that arrived here lately
    from London, brought over no less than 206 Chests of Green
    and Bohea Teas, for the different Merchants of this City.

    Since our last two Vessels arrived here from Ireland, with
    about 2000 Firkins of choice Irish Butter, which we hope
    will bring down the Price of that Article.

       *       *       *       *       *

We get an idea of men's clothing in 1767 from the following:--

    _WHEREAS in the Time of Divine Service Yesterday, the House
    of the Subscriber was broke open, and the following Things
    stolen from thence, viz._ a Chocolate-colour Coat and Jacket
    trim'd with Brass Buttons, a cloth-colour'd cut-velvet
    Jacket with white Buttons, a pair Wash-Leather Breeches with
    white Buttons, five Silver Tea-Spoons, and one large ditto,
    mark'd G.P. _Whoever shall apprehend the Thief or Thieves,
    so that he or they may be convicted, shall have FOUR DOLLARS
    Reward, paid by_

                                                  JOHN PRESCOTT.

    Concord, September 14, 1767.

       *       *       *       *       *

Lectures were not common in the last century. It was not until within
fifty or sixty years ago, when Lyceums began to be established, that the
lecture system became developed.

We find that in 1769 a Mr. Douglass lectured in Boston, according to an
advertisement in the "Chronicle," August 17th.

The well-known Colonel David Mason of the Revolution, who was a
prominent figure among the patriots at Leslie's Retreat at the North
Bridge in Salem in February, 1775, was one of the earliest, if not the
very first, to lecture in Salem upon a scientific subject. In the "Essex
Gazette," Jan. 15, 1771, we find his advertisement:--

            _No longer than next Week, will
        Continue to be exhibited, every Evening
    in which the Air is dry, (Saturday and Sunday
    excepted)_

    A Course of Experiments in that instructive
    and entertaining Branch of Natural PHILOSOPHY, called

    =Electricity=,

    To be accompanied with Methodical Lectures
    on the Nature and Properties of that WONDERFUL ELEMENT,

                     By David Mason,

          At his Dwelling-House near the North Bridge.
           The Course to consist of two Lectures,
               At a Pistareen each Lecture.

    As the Knowledge of Nature tends to enlarge the human Mind,
    and give us more noble, more grand and exalted Ideas of the
    AUTHOR of Nature, and if well pursued, seldom fails
    producing something _useful_ to Man, 'tis hoped these
    Lectures may be thought worthy of Regard and Encouragement.

            _Tickets to be had at the above Place._

       *       *       *       *       *

             _Positively the LAST NIGHT._
              =To-Morrow, being Friday,=
                  _August 17, 1769._
                   =Mr. Douglass,=
                 _Will deliver the_
                      _LECTURE_
                         ON
                      =HEADS,=
          _Coats of Arms, Wigs, Ladies-head
             Dresses,_ &c, &c, &c, &c.
           After which, will be pronounced
                  SOME SELECT PIECES
                        From
                 THE MOST CELEBRATED
                    ENGLISH POETS.
    *** Tickets for Admission, to be had of _Green_ and
  _Russell_, and at the _Bunch of Grapes_ in King-Street.
              _At_ HALF-a-DOLLAR each.
            To begin exactly at 8 o'clock.

       *       *       *       *       *

Thus we see that Salem was early in the field of literature and science.
Its citizens must take pride in remembering such great names as
Nathaniel Bowditch, William H. Prescott, Joseph Story, Timothy
Pickering, John Pickering, Benjamin Peirce, William W. Story, Nathaniel
Hawthorne, and many others.

       *       *       *       *       *

When we see the great waste of paper in these days,--handbills,
circulars, and newspapers, which are blowing about the streets at
times,--we sometimes wonder how it was in 1767, on October 19, when the
following notice appeared in the "Boston Gazette."

    --> _THIS is to give Notice, That on_ TUESDAY _the 27th
    Instant, the Bell-Cart will go thro'_ Boston, _to collect
    Linnen Rags for_ Milton _Paper-Mill; as the highest Price
    will be given, all House-keepers and others are desired to
    have them in Readiness.--And, as it appears that all Sorts
    of Paper now to be imported, will come at a much higher
    Price than usual--if People will but save their Rags, it
    will not only be greatly interesting to the Public that the
    aforesaid Mill should have a full Supply, but will also
    encourage the manufacturing of all such different Sorts of
    Paper as are generally used among us, and a little to spare
    the neighbouring Governments._

       *       *       *       *       *

Here are two notices,--the first, nearly eight years before the battle
of Lexington, sounds warlike; the second is a call to promote greater
economy on the part of the inhabitants.

      _Messieurs_ EDES & GILL,

    _Please to insert the following in your next._

    IT is rumoured, and some say with great Probability, that a
    Body of Troops are ordered to be in Readiness at Halifax, to
    embark to any Part on the Continent of America, upon the
    first Notice of Uneasiness at the Novelties we daily
    expect.--It is as certain that America is also in Readiness
    to defend their Liberties at the Risque of every Thing
    else--there can be no Hesitation whenever the Alternative
    shall be Slavery or Death--If therefore they wait to know
    whether we will tamely submit to Slavery, the sooner the
    Matter is bro't to a Crisis the better.----But while we have
    any Opinion of the Integrity and good Sense of the
    Parliament of G.B. such Reports will not easily gain Credit.
    DETERMINATUS.

       *       *       *       *       *

    The Freeholders and other Inhabitants of this Town, are to
    meet at Faneuil-Hall, on Wednesday next, to consider and
    agree upon some effectual Measures to promote Industry,
    Oeconomy, and Manufactures, thereby to prevent the
    unnecessary Importation of European Commodities, which
    threaten the Country with Poverty and Ruin, &c.----

       *       *       *       *       *

Timothy Pickering, the father of the distinguished Revolutionary officer
and statesman of the same name, addressed an open letter to King George
III., which is printed in the "Salem Gazette," Oct. 31, 1769. It is a
very quaint production, but it shows the writer's love of simplicity and
downright honesty. He was a sturdy Puritan.

                                              "Oct. 31, 1769.

    "TO THE KING OF GREAT BRITAIN.

    "GREAT SIR,--Your Kingdom is like a House divided against
    itself. Something Extraordinary must be done. Our
    Parliaments for fifty years past (or some of them) have
    ruined the Nation, in making a monstrous Debt by hiring
    Money, while greater Sums have been expended in Pride and
    Luxury. Thirteen hundred Thousand Pounds Sterling, the
    Public Prints tell us, is paid annually to the Dutch as
    Interest money. My Advice is that all Rulers and Officers,
    who have high Salaries, drop them, except so much as is
    necessary for plain Living;--(Samuel had more Honour in his
    plain Living with his upright Mind, than Saul had in all his
    Princely Grandeur,)--And that all unnecessary Pensions cease
    together with military Officers half-pay, (How Unequal are
    our Ways: These Officers must have large Half-Pay, while the
    common Soldiers are not allowed small Half-Pay--who have
    been exposed generally to greater Hardships than their
    Officers. Either let all have Half-Pay or none. The Soldiers
    are to be respected as well as their Officers and are as
    necessary,) and that high Taxes _very high_ be laid on all
    Pride and Luxury, wherever it is found, the Clergy and the
    Women not excepted; And that great Taxes be laid on the
    Rich. I have an Income of but about eighty Pounds Sterling a
    Year, including my own Hands Labour, nevertheless I am
    freely willing to pay one quarter Part of it in Taxes till
    my Public Debts are paid. Others that have Two hundred a
    Year, can with Ease pay one half of it in Taxes, if need be.
    _Pay thy Debts_; Owe no man anything is Law, _Divine and
    Moral_. Immoral Men are in the road that leads to Hell; if
    they attend Public Worship, they are Hypocrites, like the
    Scribes and Pharisees, of whom _Christ_ said, Ye are of your
    Father the Devil. If I understand the Apostle, when such Men
    sit or kneel at a Communion Table, it is a Table of Devils
    to them. Pray, Sir, tell your Placemen that the vast
    Multitude of your Subjects are very uneasy that so much of
    the Public Money, when raised is sunk in the Gulph of
    Exhorbitancy. My Governor, Mr. Francis Bernard, demands a
    thousand Pounds Sterling a Year; one half that Sum is more
    than Enough, especially as the Nation is ready to sink with
    the Weight of its Public Debt. The _Clergy_ can tell their
    Congregations that the New Testament rather reproves than
    commands the wearing of costly Array and faring sumptuously
    every Day; And I may venture to tell my Readers that all
    those who neglect taking a conscientious care to pay their
    Debts, private Debts, as well as public, are in the high Way
    to Destruction; the commonness of the Sin don't abate the
    Malignity of it.

    P.S. Your Majesty sees how diligent Governor Nehemiah was in
    reforming what was amiss in Israel. He was obliged indeed to
    contend with the Nobles and the Rulers who opposed him, but
    he subdued them, and no wonder! Because he feared God and
    not Man.

    From a loyal Subject of my King and a sincere Friend to his
    Kingdom.

                                             TIMOTHY PICKERING.

Mr. Pickering wrote a letter to his son, while the latter was a student
at Harvard College, requesting him not to play at cards, a practice
which he regarded as wicked. But the son (Colonel Timothy Pickering
afterwards), as Mr. Upham, his biographer, well remarks, was altogether
too busy with his studies to waste time over cards.

       *       *       *       *       *

We do not observe in the old papers much that would indicate a belief in
modern Spiritualism; but it would seem from some accounts that "angels"
were occasionally seen. In the cases we quote, the kind of "angels" is
not stated. Whether they were real live beauties, or not, can only be
conjectured. Who would not now like to buy one of these books at "four
Coppers," so as to read all about these angels?

                        _THIS DAY PRINTED._

          (And Sold by _Green & Russel_, in Queen-Street,)

    A True & wounderful Relation of the Appearance of THREE
    ANGELS, (cloathed in White Raiment) to a young Man at
    _Medford_, near _Boston_, in _New-England_, on the 4th of
    _February_ 1761, at Night. Together with the Substance of
    the DISCOURSE, delivered by one of the Angels, from the 3d
    Chapter of _Colossians_, and 4th Verse.

                   [Price only four Coppers.]

    --> Good Allowance to those that purchase by the Dozen.

                           _Boston Gazette_, Feb. 18, 1761.

       *       *       *       *       *

About this time, also, "angels" made their appearance "at home"
(England), as will be seen by another notice from the same paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

                         This Day Published,

       (_And Sold by_ Fowle & Draper, _in_ Marlboro'-Street.)

    A full Relation of the surprizing Appearance of an Angel, in
    the Parish-Church of Gainsbury in Lincolnshire, on
    Christmas-Day last, in the Morning.--From whom was obtained
    a Prophecy of many Things that should come to pass in
    Europe; but more especially in England and France:--The
    first of which Kingdoms is threatened with several Judgments
    on Account of their great Misimprovement of peculiar
    Priviledges: Whilst the latter, notwithstanding their
    Endeavours to become great, shall be totally destroy'd by
    Discord among themselves, &c. &c. The whole being a loud
    Call to Repentance.--Published at the Request of the
    Parishioners, and attested to by two Ministers, and three
    Esquires.

                                                        1761.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the "Boston Post-Boy" for Dec. 12, 1763, is an account of the
dedication of the Synagogue in Newport, R.I.

                    _NEWPORT, December 5._

    _On Friday last, in the Afternoon, was the Dedication of the
    new Synagogue, in this Town. It began by a handsome
    Procession, in which were carried the Books of the Law, to
    be deposited in the Ark. Several Portions of Scripture, and
    of their Service, with a Prayer for the Royal Family, were
    read, and finely sung by the Priest and People. There were
    present many Gentlemen and Ladies. The Order and Decorum,
    the Harmony and Solemnity of the Musick, together with a
    handsome Assembly of People, in an Edifice the most perfect
    of the Temple Kind perhaps in America, and splendidly
    illuminated, could not but raise in the Mind a faint Idea of
    the Majesty and Grandeur of the antient Jewish Worship
    mentioned in Scripture._

       *       *       *       *       *

We find by the "Salem Mercury" of March 30, 1789, that New Hackensack
was fifty or sixty years before Rochester in "rappings" and
"table-tippings." Who shall say that these manifestations, whatever they
are, are not as old as man himself? The best and wisest of us do not
know everything. There may be some science, yet in its infancy, which
will some day be explained, so that all these things will then be
perfectly understood. The account here given has no appearance of
deception. Had the girl lived a hundred years earlier, she would in all
probability have been hanged for a witch; but had she lived in these
days, she might have reaped a harvest from lectures and séances.

                     PHILADELPHIA, March 10.

    _Extract of a letter from a gentleman at Fishkill, dated
                        March 3, 1789._

    "Were I to relate the many extraordinary accounts of the
    unfortunate girl at New-Hackensack, your belief might,
    perhaps, be staggered. I shall therefore only inform you of
    what I was an eyewitness to. Last Sunday afternoon myself
    and wife went to Dr. Thorn's, and after sitting sometime, we
    heard a knocking under the feet of a young woman that lives
    in the family; I asked the Doctor what occasioned the
    noise--he could not tell, but replied, that he, together
    with several others had examined the house, but were unable
    to discover the cause. I then took a candle, and went with
    the girl into the cellar--there the knocking also continued;
    but as we were ascending the stairs to return, I heard a
    prodigious rapping on each side, which alarmed me very much.
    I stood still some time looking around with amazement, when
    I beheld some lumber, which lay at the head of the stairs,
    shake considerably. About eight or ten days after, we
    visited the girl again--the knocking still continued, though
    much louder. Our curiosity induced us to pay the third
    visit, when the phenomena were still more alarming. I then
    saw the chairs move; a large dining table was thrown against
    me, and a small stand on which stood a candle, was tossed
    up, and thrown in my wife's lap; after which we left the
    house, much surprised at what we had seen."

       *       *       *       *       *

Advertisements for runaway slaves are very numerous, as well as offers
for the sale of single slaves. In some instances negro children are "to
be given away." The following notices are taken from the "Boston
Gazette" and the "Boston Post-Boy." The descriptions of dress, personal
appearance, etc., are very curious.

    RAN away from _Thomas Poynton_ of _Salem_, a Negro Fellow,
    about 25 Years of Age, a short thick-set Fellow, not very
    black, something pitted with the Small-Pox, speaks bad
    English: Had on when he went away, a dark colour'd Cloth
    Coat, lined with red Shalloon, with Mettal Buttons, a blue
    Sailor's Jacket, and a flowered German Serge Jacket, black
    knit Breeches, a Pair grey Stockings newly stock'd, an old
    Beaver Hatt, and an old Drab Great Coat: Any Person that
    shall take up said Negro, and convey him to _Salem_, or
    secure him in any Gaol shall be well rewarded, and all
    necessary Charges paid.

    N.B. All Masters of Vessels and others are cautioned against
    harbouring, concealing or carrying off the said Negro, as
    they would avoid the Rigour of the Law.      THOMAS POYNTON.

                                        _Gazette_, Feb. 4, 1766.

       *       *       *       *       *

                         To be given away,

    A Male Negro Child of a good Breed, and in good Health.
    Inquire of Green and Russell.

                                 _Post-Boy_, Feb. 28, 1763.

       *       *       *       *       *

                            TO BE SOLD.

    A young Negro Woman about 20 Years of Age, born in this
    Country, possess'd of many good Qualifications, is a very
    good COOK, can handle her Needle well, and do every Kind of
    Business about House, and sold only for want of Employ.
    Enquire of Green & Russell.

        --> She will not be sold out of this Town.

                                    _Post-Boy_, Feb. 28, 1763.

       *       *       *       *       *

    RAN away from his Master, _John Amiel_ of _Boston_, last
    Thursday Night, a Negro Fellow named _Peer_, he had on when
    he went away a cloth colour'd Coat, lin'd and trim'd with
    red, a black broad cloth Waistcoat without sleeves, a yellow
    pair of leather Breeches, a large pair of silver Buckels, and
    a good Beaver Hat; he is a thick set Fellow, has very large
    Feet and Legs, and speaks good _French_ and _English_.
    Whoever will apprehend the said Negro and bring him to his
    Master in _Boston_, shall have TWO DOLLARS Reward, and all
    necessary Charges paid by                     _John Amiel._

    All Masters of Vessels and others, are hereby forbid to
    harbour, conceal or carry off said Negro Servant, as they
    would avoid the penalty of the Law.

        _Boston, May 2._

                                    _Post-Boy_, May 10, 1763.

       *       *       *       *       *

                           TO BE SOLD

    A Negro Woman, about Twenty Eight Years of Age; she is
    remarkably healthy, and strong, and several other good
    Qualities; and is offer'd to Sale, for no other reason, than
    her being of a furious Temper, and somewhat lazy; smart
    Discipline, would make her a very good Servant. Any Person
    minded to Purchase, may be further inform'd by enquiring of
    the Printers.

                                        _Gazette_, May 12, 1760.

       *       *       *       *       *

            _Newport, Rhode-Island, August 28, 1767._

    Ran-away from _Benjamin Brenton_, a short thick Negro Man
    named LONDON, has lost his Toes off both Feet. Whoever
    brings said Negro to his Master, shall have EIGHT DOLLARS
    Reward, and all Charges paid.

                                            _Boston Gazette._

       *       *       *       *       *

Boston, for aught we know, did as much in the slave-trade as Newport;
possibly more. The numerous advertisements of "Prime Men and Boys" and
"Parcels of likely Negroes" which appear about this time in the Boston
papers rather indicate a considerable trade in slaves.


                  JUST IMPORTED AND TO BE SOLD BY
                            John Rowe,
                          AT HIS STORE,

    A few likely Negro Boys, and two Negro Men between 20 and 30
    Years of Age. Also, Newcastle Coals, Lisbon and Salterduda
    Salt, A few Pipes of MADEIRA WINES, also Fyal Wines, Quart
    Bottles by the Groce--Hemp--Russia and Ravens Duck--English Duck
    of all Numbers--Cordage Anchors--Oznabrigs--Ticklenburgs--Hooks
    and Lines--Newcastle Crown Glass of all Sizes and in Sheets--ALSO,
    Bristol Glass of all Sizes--All Sorts of Nails--Scotch Snuff,
    and a variety of English and Scots Manufactures.

                                   _Boston Post-Boy_, Dec. 19, 1763.

       *       *       *       *       *

                    Just Imported from _Africa_,
           And to be Sold cheap at No. 5 _Butler's_ Row.

    A few prime Men and Boys Slaves from the Gold Coast.

       *       *       *       *       *

                            TO BE SOLD,

    A Parcel of likely Negroes, imported from _Africa_, Cheap
    for Cash or Credit with Interest; enquire of _John Avery_ at
    his House, next Door to the white Horse, or at a Store
    adjoining to said _Avery's_ Distill House, at the South End,
    near the South Market:--Also if any Persons have any Negroe
    Men, strong and hearty, tho' not of the best moral
    character, which are proper Subjects for Transportation, may
    have an Exchange for small Negroes.

                                          _Boston Gazette_, 1763

       *       *       *       *       *

                           JUST Imported,

                           From _AFRICA_.

    A Number of prime young _SLAVES_, from the Windward Coast,
    and to be Sold on board Capt. _Gwin_ lying at New-Boston.

                              _Boston Gazette_, July 13, 1761.

       *       *       *       *       *

    To be sold, a parcel of likely hearty Negroes, both Male and
    Female from Ten Years of Age to Twenty, imported the last
    Week from _AFRICA_. Enquire of Capt. _Wickham_ on board the
    Sloop _Diamond_, now laying at the Wharff adjoining to JOHN
    AVERY'S Distill-House near the South Market, or of said
    _Avery_ at his House next the White Horse.

We have not been able to find that any of the inhabitants of Salem
engaged in the slave-trade; but we notice that at a town-meeting held in
the month of May, 1773, the following vote was passed: "That the
Representatives of the Town be instructed to use their utmost Endeavours
to prevent the future Importation of Negroes into this Province; their
Slavery being repugnant to the natural Rights of Mankind and highly
prejudicial to the Province." It is of course possible that some Salem
people may have been interested in vessels hailing from other places and
engaged in this nefarious traffic, as it is now considered.

       *       *       *       *       *

Arrival of Irish servants at Boston in 1769.

                    _Arrived from IRELAND,_

    THE Ship King of Prussia, ARTHUR DARLEY, master, has on
    board 30 Servants, some Tradesmen, viz. Taylors,
    Shoe-makers, Smiths, Weavers, &c. the remainder Country lads
    that understand Farming business.----His stay here will be
    short, as he is bound to another Port.

                               _Boston Chronicle_, September 25.

       *       *       *       *       *

The celebrated revival preacher Rev. George Whitefield was in Boston in
1764. We take the following item from the "Boston Post-Boy" of February
24:--

    At a Meeting of the Freeholders and other Inhabitants of the
    Town of Boston on Friday last, it was voted unanimously,
    That the Thanks of the Town be given the Rev. Mr. GEORGE
    WHITEFIELD, for his charitable Care and Pains in collecting
    a considerable Sum of Money in Great-Britain, for the
    distressed Sufferers by the great Fire in Boston, 1760; and
    a respectable Committee was appointed to wait on Mr.
    WHITEFIELD to inform him of the Vote, and present him with a
    Copy thereof, which Committee waited upon him accordingly,
    and received the following Answer,

      _Gentlemen,_

    _This Vote of Thanks for so small an Instance of my
    good-will to_ Boston, _as it was entirely unexpected, quite
    surprizes me----Often have I been much concerned that I
    could do no more upon such a distressing Occasion.----That
    the Redeemer may ever preserve the Town from such like
    melancholy Events, and sanctify their present afflictive
    Circumstances to the spiritual Welfare of all its
    Inhabitants, is the hearty Prayer of,_

        Gentlemen,
            Your ready Servant in our common LORD.
                                         _GEORGE WHITEFIELD._

    The Rev. Mr. WHITEFIELD preached on Tuesday and Saturday
    last, at the Old South Meeting-House, to large and crouded
    Auditories.

       *       *       *       *       *

Marriage of Copley, the celebrated painter, from the "Chronicle," Nov.
20, 1769.

    Last Thursday Mr. _John Singleton Copley_ was married to
    Miss _Sukey Clarke_ Daughter of _Richard Clarke_, Esq; and
    Mr. _Joshua Henshaw_, jun. to Miss _Katherine Hill_,
    Daughter of Col. _John Hill_.

       *       *       *       *       *

                           Thomas Britt

    Would take a few young Ladies, _&c._ to teach them Spelling,
    Reading, Writing, and Arithmetic, at his School near the
    Cornfield. ALSO, French taught and translated by said
    _Britt_.

                               _Boston Gazette_, April 27, 1767.

       *       *       *       *       *

Where were or where was, as the case might be, the "Cornfields" or
"Cornfield" of Boston in 1763? Martin Gay kept a store or lived near
there, and in 1767 Master Britt kept a school for young ladies near the
"Cornfield."

                         Choice English Peas

    at the North-Mills, TO BE SOLD, by the larger or smaller
    Quantity, at a low Rate, Enquire of _William Paine_ at said
    Mills, or of _Martin Gay_, near the Cornfields, _Boston_.

                                                 Dec. 12, 1763.

       *       *       *       *       *

When we remember the old pictures and portraits of stately ladies with
high headdresses and gentlemen with wigs, the following advertisements
are interesting:--

                  Joshua Davis, _Peruke-Maker_.

    HEREBY informs his Customers, and others, That he has
    Remov'd his Shop from the Head of the Long Wharf, next the
    Crown Coffee House, to the first Shop in Mackrell Lane, next
    the Bunch of Grapes Tavern, where they may be serv'd with
    Fidelity and Dispatch.

    --> Said _Davis_ makes the neatest and most fashionable
    Wiggs, at a moderate Rate.

                                 _Boston Gazette_, Feb. 18, 1761.

       *       *       *       *       *

    A genteel Gold Watch, made by _Marmaduke Storr_, to be Sold,
    inquire of the Printers.
                                                 Sept. 14, 1761.

       *       *       *       *       *

    A few Genteel Grey and light Grey London-made WIGS, to be
    sold by JOHN CROSBY, Periwig Maker near the Sign of the
    Lamb, also Wig-makers Ribbons, Silk and Cauls, Bodyed
    Grizle, and Grizle Hairs for cut Wigs, Bleach'd, Tye and
    Brown Spencer Hairs, white Goat Hairs, white, black, and
    brown Horse Hairs, Moy Crown Hairs, Cards and Brushes,
    drawing Cards and Brushes, best Razors, purple Thread, Tupee
    Irons, & Curling Tongs, Tupee Combs in Cases, Wig Blocks,
    Silk Puffs, Hair, Powder, Shaving Boxes, & Brushes, wash
    Ball Boxes, and wash Balls, London black Balls with Printed
    directions, to use them very Nice, black Sattin Baggs for
    the Hair, white, black, yellow; & Bear Grees, Pomatum
    Excellent with their use to make Hair of a good Colour, & to
    grow thicker, Gold & Silver Powders (so called) to clean
    Gold and Silver Lace & Embroaderry.

                               _Boston Post-Boy_, Dec. 12, 1763.

       *       *       *       *       *

At fires, leather buckets were used by the inhabitants, and were
sometimes lost or misplaced, as appears from the following
advertisements from the "Boston Gazette":--

    LOST at the late Fire on the 5th of November Inst. a Leather
    Bucket, No. 2, mark'd _Wm. Hickling_: Whoever is taken up
    the same, are desir'd to return it to the Owner, or the
    Printers hereof.

       *       *       *       *       *

    _LOST at the Fire near Oliver's-Dock, on the 14th Day of
    November last, a Pair of Leather Fire Buckets, mark'd_
    Benj^a. Barnard, _and dated 1757. Whoever will give
    Information, or bring them to the Printers hereof, shall be
    handsomely Rewarded._

                                                 Dec. 10, 1759.

Within the writer's recollection, in nearly every house in Salem two or
more fire-buckets, marked with the owner's name, were, when not in use,
kept hanging in the front hall. At fires, lanes, as they were called, of
men were formed, under the direction generally of the fire-wards, and
water was passed from one to another and to the fire from some
neighboring pump or cistern.

       *       *       *       *       *

We see notices like the following of insurance offices; but they were
principally for marine risks, as not many fire risks were taken before
the beginning of the present century.

                      _Hurd's_ Insurance-Office,

               At the BUNCH OF GRAPES, STATE-STREET,
                               BOSTON,

    OPEN at all hours of business, where Policies of Insurance
    are underwritten upon the most moderate premiums; and the
    Gentlemen forming this Insurance Company, whose names are
    inserted in each Policy, having established adequate Funds
    for the ready payment of such losses as may happen, hereby
    notify, that business will be done with all possible
    attention, dispatch and punctuality, by

                                                   JOHN HURD,

    April 8, 1784.                        (Insurance Broker.)

       *       *       *       *       *

             THIS is to inform all Gentlemen in Trade,
                                That

                       THE INSURANCE OFFICE

    Lately kept in Ann-Street near the Town-Dock, by SAMUEL
    PHILLIPS SAVAGE, is removed to the House of the Honorable
    WILLIAM BRATTLE, Esq; next Door to the British Coffee-House,
    King-Street: Where the Business of Insurance is carried on
    as usual.

    _Boston, December 6, 1759._

With regard to policies, the term "under-writer" came from an old
custom. There were in old times no joint-stock companies for insurance,
but policies were filled out and left at an office kept by some person
for the purpose, where any responsible man could sign his name to a
particular policy and affix such sum as he was willing to risk, and thus
become one of the "underwriters." We have seen, for instance, a policy
for $20,000 with twelve or fifteen names of merchants, signed with
various sums from $500 upwards.

       *       *       *       *       *

A quaint notice of the death of Obadiah Brown, of Providence, from the
"Boston Post-Boy":--

                   _PROVIDENCE, June 21, 1762._

    ON Thursday last died at his Seat in the Country, after two
    Days Illness, OBADIAH BROWN, Esq; in the 50th Year of his
    Age. He was one of the most considerable Men in this Town:
    In the various Branches of Business which he carried on, his
    Activity was unequalled, his Judgment and Prudence oftener
    admired than imitated, his Honesty and Integrity fit to be
    drawn into Example.--As a Magistrate, he was judicious,
    grave, and reserved:--As a Friend, constant, open,
    facetious, and cheerful:--In the Relations of a Husband,
    Father, and Master, the deep and real Sorrow of his Widow,
    the mournful Tears of his Children, and the unusual Cries
    and Lamentations of his Servants, are invincible Proofs in
    his Favour. His Beneficence is witnessed by the Sighs of the
    Poor and Thanks of the Tradesmen: And his Death is
    universally lamented, because his Life was universally
    useful.

       *       *       *       *       *

Notice of Hon. Daniel Russell, from the "Boston Gazette":--

                             _Charlestown, December 10, 1763._

    ON Tuesday last departed this Life, after a short Illness,
    the Hon. DANIEL RUSSELL, Esq; who, for upwards of Twenty
    Years, was a Member of his Majesty's Council for this
    Province: He also served the Province as Commissioner of
    Impost, and the County of Middlesex as Treasurer, for more
    than fifty Years; in the Discharge of all which Offices,
    such was his conscientious Fidelity and unsullied Integrity,
    as procured him universal Approbation and Esteem.

    In public and private Life, his whole Conduct was such as
    evidently showed his invariable desire and endeavour to
    preserve a Conscience void of Offence both towards God and
    Man; and by the Rectitude of his Behaviour, to adorn and
    recommend the holy Religion which he professed, and to
    approve himself to the all-searching Eye of the Father of
    Spirits.

    His Memory is greatly honoured by all who were acquainted
    with him, in whose esteem he was truly that "noblest Work of
    God, _An honest Man_."

    It is observable that in the several Offices which he
    sustained, he succeeded his worthy Father and Grandfather;
    both of whom held and discharged the same, for a great
    Number of Years, with unspotted Reputation.

    His Remains, we hear, will be inter'd on Monday next, on
    which Day, had he lived, he would have entered the 79th Year
    of his Age.

             "The sweet Remembrance of the just
             "Shall flourish when he sleeps in dust."

       *       *       *       *       *

Account of the burial of Major-General Whitmore, from the "Boston
Gazette":--

                    BOSTON, _December 21, 1761_.

    Wednesday afternoon the Corps of Major General WHITMORE was
    interred in the King's Chapple with all the Honours that
    this Town could give. The Procession went from the
    Town-House to the King's Chapple in the following Manner; A
    Party of the Troop of Horse Guards, the Company of Cadets,
    the Officers of the Regiment of Militia, the officiating
    Ministers, the Corps, the Pall supported by six regular
    Officers, the chief Mourners, the Governor and Lieut.
    Governor, the Council, the Judges, Justices, Ministers, and
    principal Gentlemen of the Town, a great Number of Coaches
    and Chariots following. During the whole Procession
    Minute-Guns were fired. The Corps was placed in the Middle
    of the King's Chapple whilst Part of the Funeral Service was
    performed, and was from thence carried into the Vaults
    below, and there interred. Whilst the last Service was
    performing the Cadets fired three Vollies.

       *       *       *       *       *

Notice of Hon. John Erving, from the "Massachusetts Gazette," Aug. 22,
1786:--

    Died, last Sunday morning, in the 94th year of his age, the
    Hon. JOHN ERVING, Esq. who, for twenty years, was a member
    of the Council under the old constitution, and one of the
    most eminent merchants in America.

    As a man of probity, and strict honesty, he was universally
    esteemed. Those who were acquainted with his character must
    regret the loss of so worthy a member of the community. In
    his domestick life he was a tender parent and kind
    master.----His funeral will be this afternoon, precisely at
    five o'clock, from his house in Tremont-street, where his
    friends and acquaintance are desired to attend.

       *       *       *       *       *

Notice of the death of Mrs. Elizabeth Salisbury, from the "Massachusetts
Centinel," March 28, 1789:--

    _Last Wednesday night departed this life, very suddenly,
    Mrs._ ELIZABETH SALISBURY, _the amiable and virtuous Consort
    of Mr. Samuel Salisbury of this town, merchant. Her funeral
    will be from his house in Marlborough-street, this
    afternoon--which her friends are desired to attend._

       *       *       *       *       *

From the "Boston Chronicle," March 8, 1770:--

                            BOSTON.

    For some days bye-past, there have been several affrays
    between the inhabitants and the soldiers quartered in this
    town.

    Last Monday about 9 o'clock at night a most unfortunate
    affair happened in King-street: The centinel posted at the
    Custom-house, being surrounded by a number of people, called
    to the main-guard, upon which Capt. Preston, who was Captain
    of the day, with a party, went to his assistance: soon after
    which some of the party fired, by which the following
    persons were killed and wounded,

    Mr. Samuel Gray, ropemaker, killed.--A Mollatto man, named
    Johnson, killed.--Mr. James Caldwell, mate of Capt. Morton's
    vessel, killed.--Mr. Samuel Maverick, wounded, and since
    dead.--A Lad named Christopher Monk, wounded.--A lad named
    John Clark, wounded.--Mr. Edward Payne, Merchant, standing
    at his entry-door, wounded in the arm.--Mr. John Greene,
    taylor, wounded.--Mr. Patrick Cole, wounded.--David Parker,
    wounded.

    Early next morning Captain Preston was committed to gaol,
    and same day 8 soldiers.

    A meeting of the inhabitants was called at Fanueil-hall that
    forenoon: and the Lieutenant-Governor and Council met at the
    Council-chamber, where the Colonels Dalrymple and Carr were
    desired to attend, when it was concluded upon, that both
    regiments should go down to the barracks at Castle-William,
    as soon as they were ready to receive them.

    _We decline at present, giving a more particular account of
    this unhappy affair, as we hear the trial of the unfortunate
    prisoners is to come on next week._

This is all the "Boston Chronicle" has to say about that great
historical event of the fifth of March, an event which stirred the whole
country and filled the minds of the Colonists with a perfect hatred of
the British power in America,--"The Boston Massacre." The editor of the
paper was probably a Tory.

       *       *       *       *       *

The "Massachusetts Gazette," Feb. 3, 1774, says:--

    We hear that the Hon. JOHN HANCOCK, Esq; is appointed to
    deliver the ORATION in Commemoration of the Bloody Tragedy
    on the 5th of March.

       *       *       *       *       *

The "Salem Gazette" has this item, March 7, 1782:--

    Last Tuesday Mr. George R. Minot delivered an elegant and
    spirited Oration, at the old brick meeting-house, in
    commemoration of the horrid massacre perpetrated on the 5th
    of March, 1770, by a banditti of the British tyrant's 29th
    regiment.

       *       *       *       *       *

It may not be of any consequence to the public to know what kind of coat
Jonathan Williams wore in 1767, but it may be a matter of curiosity to
his descendants now living. We take the following advertisement from the
"Boston Gazette," Dec. 28, 1767:--

    Whereas there has been taken out of the House of _Jonathan
    Williams_ in Cornhill, two Great Coats, on the 23d Instant,
    one of his own Wearing a cloth-coloured Drab; the other his
    Servants, a blue Cloth ditto. Whoever has taken them, and
    will return the former to said _Williams_, shall have the
    latter _gratis_, and no Questions ask'd.

       *       *       *       *       *

                            Notice.

    Frequent applications being made to the Town-Cryer, to
    proceed through the streets in search of Children that have
    strayed from their home, which practice often excites
    unnecessary alarm to the inhabitants.

    The public are respectfully desired, in case of any
    discovery of a child, or children so lost or strayed, to
    bring them immediately to the subscriber at No. 71, Newbury
    street.--By an attention to this regulation, Parents and
    friends may have their anxiety relieved by applying as
    above.

                          SAMUEL ADAMS, _Town-Cryer_.

                      _Constitutional Telegraph_, Aug. 8, 1800.

       *       *       *       *       *

Masonic notice from Paul Revere and others, from the "Boston Post-Boy."

    NOTICE is hereby given to the Brethren of the Antient and
    Honorable Society of FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS, That the
    Feast of St. JOHN the BAPTIST will be Celebrated by the
    Brethren of St. ANDREW'S Lodge, (duly authoriz'd,
    constituted and appointed to be held at _Boston_, by the
    Right Honorable, JOHN LORD ABERDOUR, Grand Master of
    _Scotland_) on Thursday the 24th Instant, at the
    Royal-Exchange Tavern in King-Street, Tickets to be had of

                                   JOSEPH WEBB, jun.
      _Boston, June 14, 1762._     PHILLIP LEWIS,
                                   PAUL REVERE.

       *       *       *       *       *

The house of Copley, the celebrated painter, is thus advertised:--

             _To be LET, and entered on immediately,_

    THAT elegant, convenient, and most pleasantly situated
    DWELLING-HOUSE, with a large Garden, and other Land about
    it, (near his Excellency the Governour's) belonging to Mr.
    COPLEY; well known to be completely accommodated for a
    genteel family. Inquire of CHARLES PELHAM, (at the late
    Dwelling-House of Mrs. PELHAM, at New-Boston) he being
    impowered to let it.

                                          _May 16, 1789._

                                     _Massachusetts Centinel._

       *       *       *       *       *

Antique luxuries.

    WANTED, the following, viz. Fifteen Pair of WOOD DUCKS, Four
    Pair of WILD GEESE, Three Pair of FLYING SQUIRRELS, Three
    Dozen of the smallest Size Terrapeins or fresh Water
    TURTLES, for which a good PRICE will be given, or for any
    Part of them.----Enquire of the Printer.

                                _Essex Gazette_, Feb. 21, 1771.

       *       *       *       *       *

We do not see much in the papers about spinning-wheels until after the
War of the Revolution; then there seemed to be what may be called a
revival of domestic industry. In 1786 the ladies of Hartford, Conn.,
formed an Economical Association. They say that they are "fully sensible
that our calamities are in a great measure occasioned by the luxury and
extravagance of individuals, and are of opinion that it is a duty they
owe their country as well as their families to retrench as far as
possible all unnecessary expenses." Their articles of agreement were
signed, on the 6th of November, 1786, by more than a hundred ladies
belonging to the first families in the city. By these articles they
engage "not to purchase for next six months any Gauze, Ribbons, Lace,
Feathers, Beaver-Hats, Silks, Muslins, and Chintzes, except only for
weddings and mourning;" also to "dress their persons in the plainest
manner and encourage industry, frugality, and neatness, giving all due
preference to the manufactures of their own country." To this they add
that "when they receive visits and make entertainments, it will be their
study to avoid unnecessary expense, especially on foreign articles." On
June 17 of that year the President of Harvard College addressed a
letter to the "Massachusetts Gazette" which is interesting in this
connection. This letter we copy to show how economy entered into
everything, even a "liberal education." It will moreover be of interest
because of the attempt made to regulate the students' dress.

                                        UNIVERSITY IN CAMBRIDGE,
                                               JUNE 17, 1786.

    _To the Publisher of the Massachusetts_ Gazette.

    EVERY proper attempt of the Governours of the University to
    lessen the expense of a liberal education must be grateful
    to the Publick, and meet with their hearty concurrence; the
    Members of the Community, therefore, in general, and the
    Parents and Guardians of the Students in particular, it is
    not doubted, will be well pleased with some late
    regulations, made by the Corporation and Overseers, to
    introduce economy in dress, and will readily perform their
    part, in carrying them into effect.

    By ordering an uniform, the Governours of the Society have
    removed the temptation to that frequent change of apparel,
    which may have arisen from the liberty the Students have
    had, of chusing different colours, from time to time: And by
    entirely prohibiting silk (an unnecessary article in their
    clothing) a very considerable expense is prevented.

    That the dress of the Students be neat and decent is highly
    proper; but that it should be very ornamental and expensive
    is ever needless, and oftentimes pernicious: Nor will any
    Student, who is solicitous to acquire knowledge, and
    sincerely disposed to improve his time to the best
    advantage, in obtaining such degrees of it, as may enable
    him to be extensively useful to the Community, feel a
    reluctance to economical institutions respecting dress. He
    will not only esteem the ornaments of the mind of vastly
    higher importance than those of the body, but the general
    good will also constantly influence his conduct; and he will
    chearfully encourage every regulation, which tends to
    promote frugality.

    The regulations referred to, I now transmit to you, which
    the Corporation and Overseers of the University request you
    to publish, for the information of all concerned.

        I am, Sir, your humble servant,

                                                JOSEPH WILLARD.

       *       *       *       *       *

               _At a Meeting of the_ CORPORATION, _&c._
                          JUNE 13, 1786.

    WHEREAS the enjoining of an uniform colour, in the clothing
    of the Undergraduates, and prohibiting a certain species of
    materials, in their apparel, will have a great tendency to
    lessen the expense of dress (which, at present, constitutes
    too large a proportion of the Collegiate charges) while, at
    the same time, the appearance will be more academical:

    _Voted_, That it be recommended, that the Freshmen, who
    shall be admitted into the University the present year,
    before the end of the Summer Vacation, be provided with
    coats of blue-gray, being a mixture of deep blue and white
    wool, as nearly as may be, seven eighths of the blue, and
    one eighth of the white, or, if that cannot conveniently be
    obtained, of a dark blue colour,--and with waistcoats and
    breeches of the same colour, or of a straw colour.

    That, when they shall procure clothes, afterwards, and while
    Undergraduates, their coats shall be of the colour first
    mentioned, and their waistcoats and breeches of the same
    colour, or of a straw colour.

    That the Freshmen, who shall be admitted into the University
    in the year 1787, and afterwards, shall be provided with
    coats of the colour first mentioned, and with waistcoats and
    breeches as last mentioned, and shall continue provided with
    clothes of these specified colours while they remain
    Undergraduates.

    That all, who shall hereafter be admitted, when they
    commence Sophimores, shall have the addition of frogs to the
    button holes of their coats, the cuff of the sleeve to be
    plain.

    That when they commence Junior Sophisters, their coats shall
    have the further addition of frogs on the
    button-side,--continuing the plain cuff; and they shall also
    provide themselves with black gowns, having a close sleeve
    and slit cuff, to be made according to the direction of the
    Corporation.

    That, when they commence Senior Sophisters, they shall have
    the further addition of buttons and frogs to the cuff of
    their coat, and shall also have black gowns, with a wide
    sleeve,--the mode to be determined by the Corporation.

    That when they are admitted to the Bachelor's degree, they
    shall appear in like gowns and clothes as are prescribed for
    the Senior Sophisters.

    That the Seniors and Juniors shall wear their black gowns,
    on all publick occasions, and whenever they shall publickly
    declaim in the Chapel.

    That no Undergraduate, to whom these injunctions may extend,
    be permitted to appear within the limits of the College, or
    town of Cambridge, in any other dress than is before
    described, unless he has on a night gown, or an outside
    garment be necessary over his coat.

    That no part of the dress of the Undergraduates be made of
    silk;--and that it be recommended to them, to clothe
    themselves in home manufactures, as far as may be.

    That these regulations be extended to all who shall
    hereafter be admitted into the University;--and that it be
    recommended to such as are already Members, to conform
    thereto, upon principles of economy, as far as may consist
    with their present supply of clothing.

       *       *       *       *       *

                     UNIVERSITY _in Cambridge, June 12, 1786_.

         CANDIDATES for their second degree, at the next
    Commencement, are notified, that it is expected that they
    give their attendance at the University by the 12th day of
    July; and if any should not attend by that time, they will
    not receive their degree this year, unless they give
    sufficient reasons for their absence.

    They who desire admission into the University this year, are
    also notified, that the President and Tutors will attend the
    business of examination on Friday and Saturday, the 21st and
    22d of July.

                                      JOSEPH WILLARD, President.

       *       *       *       *       *

In 1788 the industry of the people of Providence, R.I., is set forth in
the following notice, from the "Salem Mercury" of November 25:

                        AMERICAN MANUFACTURES.

    A Providence paper informs, that the Carding and Spinning
    Machines used in England in manufacturing cotton stuffs, are
    introducing into that town by some publick spirited
    gentlemen--and that there are few families in that town
    which are not manufacturing some kind of cloth.

       *       *       *       *       *

It appears from the "Columbian Centinel," July 14, 1790, that the
wealthy of that day had a fondness for foreign articles.

    Complaint is very prolifick in all countries. In the United
    States we complain, that,

    _Tho' rich at home, to foreign lands we stray,
    And trade for trinkets our best wealth away._

       *       *       *       *       *

The following advertisement from the "Massachusetts Centinel" recalls
the time when cows were pastured on Boston Common.

    STRAYED, on Saturday last, from Boston Common, and belonging
    to JONATHAN AMORY, a young red COW, with some white on the
    back and belly, forehead white, small horns, with the tips
    off. Whoever will bring her to the owner will be rewarded.

    _Boston, May 24, 1788._

       *       *       *       *       *

People were expected to have long memories in old times, judging from
the following notification in the "Boston Gazette" of 1760:--

    WHEREAS on the 17th of January 1740-1, twenty-seven yards
    and an half of yard-wide sheeting linnen, and some smaller
    articles, was sold at Mr. _James Gordon's_ shop in _Boston_,
    and deliver'd to one capt. _Stevens_, as appears by said
    _Gordon's_ book; and thro' some mistake in keeping his
    books, said articles are charg'd to another of the same
    name. If therefore the said capt. _Stevens_, that really had
    said goods, or any of his family, or others, can give any
    light into the matter, it is desired they would acquaint the
    printers hereof, and they shall be generously recompenced
    for their trouble.

       *       *       *       *       *

The "small pox" was very troublesome in Colonial times, as this
announcement from the "Boston Gazette," Feb. 2, 1761, shows:--

    Samuel Parkman hereby informs his Customers and others, That
    immediately on the breaking out of the Small-Pox in the back
    Part of his House in Union Street, he removed his Shop Goods
    to a Store on a Wharf that they may be safe from any
    Infection, and himself to the House of Mr. Joshua Winter
    Stationer--The Person who had the Distemper is perfectly
    recovered, and departed the House some Days ago, and the
    House thoroughly cleansed.

       *       *       *       *       *

The following notice from the "Massachusetts Gazette" reminds us of the
time of open fire-places and blazing, cheerful wood-fires:

    THE SELECTMEN would inform the Town, that they have
    _approbated_ a number of _Chimney-Sweepers_, who are
    furnished with badges agreeable to the By-Laws, and have
    stipulated to execute their business _faithfully_, at the
    following rates, viz.--For lower-room chimnies, _fourteen
    pence two fifths_, or _one pistareen_; and for _all_ chamber
    chimnies, _one shilling_ each--that all concerned may govern
    themselves accordingly.

    _Boston, Sept. 21, 1786._

       *       *       *       *       *

The spinning-wheel at Ipswich. From the "Columbian Centinel," June 7,
1791.

                       _For the_ CENTINEL.

    THE PRINTER is requested to record it among the numerous
    instances of female benevolence and harmony, which have been
    exhibited in these times, and so well reprove the jarring
    dissensions of the _men_--that at Ipswich, lately, at the
    house of the Rev. Mr. DANA, a numerous band of ladies, in
    harmonious concert, have again "laid their hands to the
    spindle, and held the distaff," and presented the fruit of
    their generous toil, 118 run of good yarn; viz. 88 linen, 30
    cotton; the materials, provisions, and handsome attendance,
    all furnished by themselves and those who joined with
    them.--"_Give her of the fruit of her own hands, and let her
    own works praise her in the gates._"

       *       *       *       *       *

From the "Salem Mercury," April 28, 1787.

    Not long ago a number of ladies belonging to the
    Presbyterian society in Newbury-Port, assembled at the
    Parsonage-house, with their spinning-wheels and other
    utensils of industry, for the day, to the benefit of their
    minister's family. The assembly having first united in the
    solemn exercises of social worship, the business of the day
    was opened. Every apartment in the house was full. The
    musick of the spinning-wheel resounded from every room.
    Benevolence was seen smiling in every countenance, and the
    harmony of hearts surpassed even the harmony of wheels. The
    labours of the day were concluded about 5 o'clock; when the
    fair labourers presented Mrs. MURRAY with cotton and linen
    yarn, of the best quality, amounting to 236 skeins.
    Necessary refreshment being past, publick worship was
    attended; and a discourse delivered, by the Rev. Mr. MURRAY,
    to a large assembly, from Exodus 35, 25, _And all the women
    that were wise-hearted did spin with their hands._

       *       *       *       *       *

From the "Salem Mercury," Feb. 6, 1787.

    There is a young Miss in New-Haven, who will soon wear a
    silk gown _of her own make_. Such noble industry ought to be
    written in letters of gold. May the ladies profit by the
    example--and may it soon be esteemed disreputable, by both
    ladies and gentlemen, to wear any thick silk but of our own
    manufacture.

       *       *       *       *       *

An advertisement in the "Boston Gazette," Feb. 19, 1760, rather
indicates that "searchers" sometimes exceeded their powers.

    ALL Persons who within five Years past, have had any Shoes
    or Boots, seiz'd and taken from them, in the Town of Boston,
    by any of the Searches and Sealers of Leather there, for
    being made of Leather unduly tann'd or curried, or on
    Pretence thereof; are hereby notified to give or send in to
    the Printers hereof, an Account in Writing, of the Number of
    Shoes, &c. so taken from them, the Time when (as near as
    they can) with the Name of the Person that seiz'd and took
    them, and the Name of the Justice of Peace to whom Complaint
    or Information was made concerning such Shoes, &c. by the
    eighth Day of _March_ next, if they desire any Recompence
    for the Injuries they have suffer'd by such Seizures.

       *       *       *       *       *

In 1767 snuff was apparently of more importance, as merchandise, to say
the least, than were Bibles and Testaments. In an advertisement it was
printed in capitals, while the latter were in smaller type.

                        Caleb Blanchard,

                   In Union-Street, _BOSTON._

    _HAS just Imported by Captain_ Rhodes _from_ London, _and
                 Captain_ Bain _from_ Glasgow.

    _A Great Variety of English, India, and Scotch GOODS,
    suitable for all Seasons of the Year, which He sells at the
    lowest Rates, by Wholesale or Retail, for Cash or
    Treasurer's Notes._

    N.B. _Kippen's and Tillich's SNUFF, Bibles and Testaments,
    all Sorts of Stationary, &c. &c. &c._

       *       *       *       *       *

                                     _Boston, April 19th, 1788._

    WHEREAS some person or persons have acted so villainous a
    part, as to make use of my name in vending and selling Snuff
    of a very bad quality; not only injuring me in my credit,
    but cheating the purchaser, as the Snuff manufactured by me
    is of the best kind, and which I always warrant to be such.

    Some of the purchasers of said bad Snuff have brought the
    same to me, supposing it to be really of my manufacture; but
    upon examination, found it to be of a loose and dry kind,
    and may be easily discovered.

    Whoever will give information of the person or persons, who
    thus impose on the publick, by making use of my name to
    vend and sell such base Snuff, shall be handsomely rewarded,
    by their humble servant,

                                                   SIMON ELLIOT.

    N.B. The publick are informed, that to prevent the above
    deception, the advertisements on bladders of Snuff, in
    future, will be altered from letter-press, to a copperplate
    impression. (2m)

                                       _Massachusetts Centinel._

The habit of Snuff-taking was formerly very prevalent in New England, as
well as elsewhere. Within the writer's recollection it was a very common
thing to see the snuff-box passed round for friends to take a pinch.
Very few now a days indulge in this uncleanly habit; but a recent
traveller relates that on visiting St. Peter's in Rome, the first thing
upon entering the church which attracted his attention was seeing the
Pope take a pinch of snuff and then shake from his pocket a large
old-fashioned bandanna handkerchief, which he applied to his nose. Many
years ago a gentleman of Salem was questioned by a stranger about a
certain man who happened to be an inveterate snuff-taker and who was at
the same time greatly interested in free-masonry. "Yes," said the
gentleman, "I know him."--"He's about one third masonry and two thirds
snuff." Mr. Francis H. Lee, of Salem, has a curious collection of a
hundred or more snuff-boxes of former generations. They are of various
patterns; some are made of shell and tipped with silver, and look quite
ancient. Simon Elliot, of Boston, and later Wm. Micklefield, of Salem,
were famous snuff manufacturers.

       *       *       *       *       *

A curious snuff-box, advertised in the "Columbian Centinel," 1819.

                             A CURIOSITY.

    E. COPELAND, Jr., has for sale a most elegant Gold SNUFF BOX
    set with Pearls, &c. It is about 2½ inches long and from the
    top a beautiful _little Bird_ rises at command and sings a
    tune. The movements of the wings, beak, eyes, &c. are
    perfectly natural, and all its motions while singing are in
    complete unison with its notes. This is probably as
    ingenious a piece of mechanism as was ever seen in this
    town. It will be sold a great bargain.

                                                       august 21

       *       *       *       *       *

In this connection we notice "Micklefield's Indian," as it was called, a
well-known landmark in Salem half a century ago. Mr. Micklefield was
much respected, and noted for his liberality and public spirit.

    [Illustration]

    THE Subscriber begs leave to inform his friends and the
    public, that owing to the fall in prices of different Scents
    and Stock in general, that compose the article of Snuff, he
    is thereby enabled to sell his different kinds,
    viz.--Maccoboy, Scented and Plain Rappee and Scotch

                            SNUFFS,

    at a much lower price than heretofore.--Traders in the
    neighboring towns that deal in those articles are
    particularly solicited to call at his Store, sign of the
    _Indian Chief_, corner of Central and Front streets, where
    they can purchase at very low prices, and warranted of the
    first quality.                                       ALSO,

    Spanish, half Spanish and common

                              CIGARS,

    Cavendish, Ladies' Twist, Pigtail, and all kinds of
    Manufactured

                           TOBACCO,

    wholesale and retail.

                                      WM. MICKLEFIELD.

    Salem, Jan. 18, 1827.                      tf

       *       *       *       *       *

From the "Salem Mercury," Nov. 25, 1788.

    S. Breck, Esq. member of the House of Representatives for
    Boston, appears in his seat with a complete suit of American
    manufactured broadcloth, of an elegant colour.

       *       *       *       *       *

About 1787 and 1788, spinning-wheel meetings seem to have been very
popular. We copy notices of meetings of young ladies in Attleboro',
Dighton, Gloucester, Rehoboth, Mass., and Providence and Johnston, R.I.,
all from the "Salem Mercury."

    ATTLEBORO', _June 20_. Yesterday, 63 respectable young
    ladies, belonging to this town, asslembled, at 2 o'clock,
    P.M. at the house of Mr. Daniel Balkum, and, to the surprise
    and great satisfaction of all the friends to industry, spun,
    before sunset, 199 skeins of excellent linen yarn. Industry
    is the genuine source of all laudable pleasure. On it depend
    all the conveniences of life. Health, the greatest of
    blessings, depends on industry--beauty, on health. If
    ladies, then, wish to be beautiful, they must be
    industrious; they must animate their countenances with that
    blooming health which comes from the SPINNING-WHEEL. The
    fair sex, when rightly and industriously employed, are
    justly termed the beauty of this lower creation. Beauty
    without virtue is contemptible. Merit only gains the heart.
    Idleness is disgraceful. Industry is the ornament of wealth,
    the support and consolation of poverty. We hope soon to see
    the time, when the fair daughters of America will be clothed
    in the manufactures of their own hands. Happy are we, that
    some have already set the example. May it never be said,
    that American ladies rise 15 minutes later than the sun. May
    they ever have thread enough in their hands to make a halter
    for a Shays.

       *       *       *       *       *

    On Tuesday last, thirteen young ladies assembled, with their
    spinning-wheels, at the house of Mr. Joseph Whipple, in
    North-Providence, and, between the hours of eight in the
    morning and six in the afternoon, completed fifty skeins of
    excellent linen yarn.

                                                  July 1, 1788.

       *       *       *       *       *

    The spinning-wheel, a few years ago imprudently neglected,
    begins to be held in general reputation by the Fair; and the
    exploits of some on that useful machine, are deservedly
    celebrated, as worthy of imitation. To those good works of
    female industry may be added the singular attachment of two
    young ladies in Dighton, who spun, the 11th instant, between
    the rising and setting of the sun, thirteen skeins and
    eleven lees of good linen yarn; one six skeins and seven,
    and the other seven skeins and four lees. The spirit of
    industry is becoming more prevalent, especially among the
    fair sex. They begin to lay aside their useless and idle
    visits, or, at least, make them less frequent. When persons
    become more industrious and mind their own business, they
    talk less, and to better purpose; they become more
    contented, and the world around them is more peaceable and
    happy.

                           _Providence Gazette_, July 1, 1788.

       *       *       *       *       *

    PROVIDENCE, _May 24_. On the 7th inst. 71 ladies met at the
    house of the Rev. Mr. Ellis, in Rehoboth, and lodged 187
    skeins of good linen yarn, which they had spun for Mrs.
    Ellis; and others have since added 31. Solomon, in
    describing a virtuous woman, says, "She seeketh wool and
    flax, and worketh willingly with her hands.--She layeth her
    hands to the spindle, and her hands hold the distaff."
    Industry is certainly a virtue, which, while it adorns,
    enriches, society; it banishes the languid hue from the
    countenances of the fair, and adds vigour and vivacity to
    the mind.--The spirited exertions that the daughters of
    Columbia are making, to manufacture our wool and flax, which
    are necessary for our consumption, are praise-worthy, and
    demand the approbation and assistance of every true patriot.
    We flatter ourselves with the pleasing expectation of seeing
    the virtuous fair clothed and ornamented in the genuine
    productions of their own labour.

       *       *       *       *       *

    We hear from Gloucester, that on Thursday last nearly thirty
    young ladies, inspired with the love of industry, asslembled
    at the house of Capt. Philemon Haskell, for the
    praise-worthy purpose of a Federal Spinning Match, when, to
    their honour, their spirited exertion produced 99 skeins of
    excellent yarn--practically declaring, that they neither
    laboured in vain or spent their strength for nought. The day
    thus industriously concluded, finished not the harmony of
    their federalism; in the evening, to crown the pleasure of
    the day, with additional company, they regaled with an
    agreeable dance, and, at a modest hour, parted in love and
    friendship, with hearts convivial as they met, leaving
    others to admire their female patriotism, and to go and do
    likewise.

    In Scotland, the farmers knit as well as the women of their
    families; but they do this while they are watching their
    sheep or cattle, or while they are sitting by their evening
    fire in winter. Why cannot our American farmers and their
    sons adopt this frugal practice? Time is the most precious
    thing in the world. Its very fragments should be saved.

       *       *       *       *       *

    PROVIDENCE, MAY 17. Monday last, eighteen young ladies
    assembled, with their spinning-wheels, at the house of
    Captain Jonathan Treadwell, and spun 40 skeins of good linen
    yarn.

    MAY 22. A correspondent desires us to mention, that at
    Johnston, a few days since, four industrious young ladies,
    by "laying their fingers to the spindle, and their hands to
    the distaff," completed, in one day, the spinning and
    reeling of 21 fifteen-knotted skeins of good linen yarn.
    Would to God, that the Gentlemen at the head of our
    political affairs in this State, were half so zealous in
    encouraging our own manufactures, as the fair sex are; who,
    at present, deservedly bear the palm, as friends to their
    country.

    "SPINNING BEE. On the 1st inst. assembled at the house of
    the Rev. Samuel Deane of this town, more than one hundred of
    the fair sex, married and single ladies, most of whom, were
    skilled in the important art of spinning. An emulous
    industry was never more apparent than in this beautiful
    assembly. The majority of fair hands gave motion to not less
    than sixty wheels. Many were occupied in preparing the
    materials, besides those who attended to the entertainment
    of the rest,--provision for which was mostly presented by
    the guests themselves, or sent in by other generous
    promoters of the exhibition, as were also the materials for
    the work. Near the close of the day Mrs. Deane was presented
    by the company, with two hundred and thirty-six,
    seven-knotted skeins of excellent cotton and linen yarn, the
    work of the day, excepting about a dozen skeins, which some
    of the company brought in ready spun. Some had spun six and
    many not less than five skeins apiece. She takes this
    opportunity of returning thanks to each, which the hurry of
    the day rendered impracticable at the time. To conclude and
    crown the day, a numerous band of the best singers attended
    in the evening and performed an agreeable variety of
    excellent pieces in psalmody. "The price of a virtuous woman
    is far above rubies, * * * She layeth her hands to the
    spindle and her hands hold the distaff."

    _Cumberland_ (Portland, Me.) _Gazette_, May 8, 1788, copied
    by EDW. H. ELWELL, Esq., editor of the _Transcript_.

       *       *       *       *       *

When spinning-wheels ceased to be used altogether, we are not able to
say. Probably they were not in use for any great length of time after
the opening of the present century; but possibly in some country places
they were used down to the time of the War of 1812, and even later. We
are informed that in some remote places in Rhode Island and in Maine
spinning-wheels are in use to this day; but these are exceptional cases.

The "Massachusetts Centinel," April 30, 1788, has this advertisement:--

    [Illustration]

                            WILLIAM SCOTT,
                    At the Sign of the SPINNING
                                WHEEL,
                      In MARLBOROUGH·STREET,
              (_Resolving to quit Trade in the Fall_)
                          WILL sell all his
                          GOODS on hand at
                      the STERLING COST and
                      CHARGES. Among which are,
      Some elegant _Mersailles_ Bed-Quilts, _Mersailles_
      Quilting in pieces, Irish Linens, Gauzes,
      Shawls and Lustrings of a superiour quality, &c, &c.

        A large quantity of silk Gloves, Mitts and Fans
                  --> _CASH for POT-ASHES._

       *       *       *       *       *

THE following very curious notice in the "Massachusetts Centinel" in
reference to funerals shows what had been customary upon such occasions;
the object of these "wholesome regulations" seemed to be to induce
economy. Gloves and rings were given to mourners in Salem to within the
last fifty or sixty years, and wines or liquors were also furnished.

                           _TAKE NOTICE._

    AN economical plan of mourning was adopted, before the
    Revolution, and its salutary effects have been experienced
    by almost every family in this town; since which those
    wholesome regulations have been passed into a law:
    Notwithstanding which, it has lately been broken in upon in
    several instances.--The _Inspectors of the Police_--that no
    one may hereafter plead ignorance, have caused the law
    respecting the same to be published, and give notice, that
    any future breach of it, will be prosecuted without any
    favour or affection.              _Boston, April 30, 1788._

       *       *       *       *       *

    _To prevent excess and vain expense, in Mourning, &c._

    IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, That in future no scarfs, gloves or
    rings shall be given at any funeral in this town, nor shall
    any wine, rum, or other spirituous liquor, be allowed or
    given at, or immediately before or after, any funeral in
    this town, under pain that the person or persons giving,
    allowing or ordering the same shall respectively forfeit and
    pay the sum of _twenty shillings_ for each offence.

    _And it is further ordered_, That whatever male person shall
    appear or walk in the procession of any funeral in this town
    with any new mourning or new black or other new mourning
    coat or waistcoat, or with any other new black apparel, save
    and except a black crape around one arm, or shall afterwards
    on account of the decease of any relation, or other person
    or persons, put on and wear any other mourning than such
    piece of black crape around one arm, shall forfeit and pay
    the sum of _twenty shillings_ for every day he shall put on
    and wear or appear in the same.

    AND no female, of whatsoever degree, shall put on, wear or
    appear at any funeral in this town, in any other mourning or
    new black clothes whatever, other than a black hat or
    bonnet, black gloves, black ribbons and a black fan, on pain
    to forfeit and pay the sum of _twenty shillings_; and also
    forfeit and pay a like sum of _twenty shillings_ for every
    day she shall at any time at, or after such funeral, put on
    wear or appear in such new black clothes, as or for
    mourning, other than black hat, bonnet, black gloves, black
    ribbons, and a black fan as aforesaid.

       *       *       *       *       *

In 1790 the town of Salem published in the papers some regulations about
funerals; among the fees fixed were these:--

    "For each Tolling of the Bell 8d."

    "The sextons are desired to toll the Bells only four strokes
    in a minute."

    "The undertakers service in borrowing chairs, waiting upon
    the Pall-holders and warning the Relations &c. to attend
    8/."

    "B. Daland and B. Brown are appointed by the Selectmen to
    see that Free Passages in the streets are kept open." (This
    was before carriages were used at funerals.)

       *       *       *       *       *

        Extracts from Mr. Colman's Agricultural Address.

                 MANUFACTORIES AND THE SPINNING
                            WHEEL.

    "The establishment of extensive manufactories, and the
    introduction of power-looms and spinning-jennies, has nearly
    destroyed the usual household manufactures, and put our
    other Jennies out of employment. Our ears are seldom greeted
    now a days in the farmer's cottage with the flying of the
    shuttle, or the deep base of the spinning wheel. We confess
    that we have looked upon their departure with a strong
    feeling of regret; and deem it no small abatement of the
    advantages, which the establishment of extensive
    manufactures has obviously yielded to the country, that it
    removes the daughter from the shelter and security of the
    paternal roof, and places her in a situation, which
    certainly furnishes no means of qualifying her for the
    proper department of woman; to preside over our domestic
    establishments; to perform her part in the joint labors of
    the household; and to know how and when and where to use,
    prepare, and to apply to the best advantage within doors,
    the products of man's labor without doors. Many occupations
    of female industry, strictly domestic however, of a healthy
    and agreeable nature, are constantly presenting themselves,
    so that there is little danger that the race of industrious
    women, and accomplished wives, at least among the country
    girls, will soon be extinct; and the silk culture, fast
    gaining ground among us, promises to furnish an unexhausted
    resource and a profitable employment of female labor."

                                        _Salem Observer_, 1834.

       *       *       *       *       *

In one of the numbers of the London "Spectator" for 1884 is an
interesting account of an attempt to revive the spinning-wheel industry
in England, through the kind offices of Mr. Albert Flemming, for the
purpose of helping poor women too old or blind to leave their homes for
other work. After considerable difficulty, a wheel was discovered among
a store of ancient articles; but no one at first knew how to use it.
Spinning was one of the lost arts, apparently. At length, however, an
old woman of eighty-four was found who understood the use of the wheel.
She taught Mr. Flemming how to spin. A few more old wheels were found,
and some new ones constructed. Then it was some time before a loom could
be discovered. Eventually this was accomplished, and the art of weaving
taught. The account says that twenty women who were unable otherwise to
obtain a living, are now busily at work, happy in being able to provide
for their families. They make, it may be added, a good strong, honest
linen, specimens of which have been presented to Mr. Ruskin. This
account is substantially from the "Living Age," Nov. 1, 1884.

[Illustration]

            University Press: John Wilson & Son, Cambridge.


    Transcriber's notes:

    These are mainly excerpts from Newspapers. Original spelling was
    not corrected.

    Text version
    *** Represents Inverted Asterism
    --> Represents Right Index





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Olden Time Series: Vol. 2: The
Days of the Spinning-Wheel in New England, by Henry M. Brooks

